docs/pages/contributing.mdx, before:

---
title: "Contributing"
description:
  "Thanks for being interested in contributing! We want contributing to Chakra
  UI to be enjoyable, and educational for anyone and everyone. All contributions
  are welcome, including issues, new docs as well as updates and tweaks, blog
  posts, workshops, and more"
order: 9
---

# Contributing to Chakra UI

Thanks for being interested in contributing! We're so glad you want to help!

We want contributing to Chakra UI to be enjoyable, and educational for anyone
and everyone. All contributions are welcome, including issues, new docs as well
as updates and tweaks, blog posts, workshops, and more.

When contributing to this repository, please first discuss the change you wish
to make via issue, email, or any other method with the owners of this repository
before making a change.

Please note we have a code of conduct, please follow it in all your interactions
with the project.

## Getting started

Please create a new branch from an up to date master on your fork. (Note, urgent
hotfixes should be branched off the latest stable release rather than master)

- Fork the Chakra UI repository on Github
- Clone your fork to your local machine
  `git clone git@github.com:<yourname>/chakra-ui.git`
- Create a branch `git checkout -b my-feature-branch`
- Make your changes, lint, then push to to GitHub with
  `git push --set-upstream origin my-feature-branch`.
- Visit GitHub and make your pull request.

If you have an existing local repository, please update it before you start, to
minimise the chance of merge conflicts.

```sh
git remote add upstream git@github.com:chakra-ui/chakra-ui.git
git checkout master
git pull upstream master
git checkout -b my-feature-branch
```

## Docs contribution

Chakra UI uses gatsby for its documentation website. Thank you in advance and
cheers for contributing to our documentation! We created a simple command to run
it.

```sh
npm run docs:start
```

You can now access the documentation site locally. Changes to the docs will hot
reload the site.

## Code contribution

TODO

## Code of Conduct

### Our Pledge

In the interest of fostering an open and welcoming environment, we as
contributors and maintainers pledge to making participation in our project and
our community a harassment-free experience for everyone, regardless of age, body
size, disability, ethnicity, gender identity and expression, level of
experience, nationality, personal appearance, race, religion, or sexual identity
and orientation.

### Our Standards

Examples of behavior that contributes to creating a positive environment
include:

- Using welcoming and inclusive language
- Being respectful of differing viewpoints and experiences
- Gracefully accepting constructive criticism
- Focusing on what is best for the community
- Showing empathy towards other community members

Examples of unacceptable behavior by participants include:

- The use of sexualized language or imagery and unwelcome sexual attention or
  advances
- Trolling, insulting/derogatory comments, and personal or political attacks
- Public or private harassment
- Publishing others' private information, such as a physical or electronic
  address, without explicit permission
- Other conduct which could reasonably be considered inappropriate in a
  professional setting

### Enforcement

Project maintainers who do not follow or enforce the Code of Conduct in good
faith may face temporary or permanent repercussions as determined by other
members of the project's leadership.

### Attribution

This Code of Conduct is adapted from the [Contributor Covenant][homepage],
version 1.4, available at
[https://contributor-covenant.org/version/1/4][version]

[homepage]: https://contributor-covenant.org
[version]: https://contributor-covenant.org/version/1/4/

Commit message:

docs(contributing): add documentation goals

docs/pages/contributing.mdx, after:

---
title: "Contributing"
description:
  "Thanks for being interested in contributing! We want contributing to Chakra
  UI to be enjoyable, and educational for anyone and everyone. All contributions
  are welcome, including issues, new docs as well as updates and tweaks, blog
  posts, workshops, and more"
order: 9
---

# Contributing to Chakra UI

Thanks for being interested in contributing! We're so glad you want to help!

We want contributing to Chakra UI to be enjoyable, and educational for anyone
and everyone. All contributions are welcome, including issues, new docs as well
as updates and tweaks, blog posts, workshops, and more.

When contributing to this repository, please first discuss the change you wish
to make via issue, email, or any other method with the owners of this repository
before making a change.

Please note we have a code of conduct, please follow it in all your interactions
with the project.

## Getting started

Please create a new branch from an up to date master on your fork. (Note, urgent
hotfixes should be branched off the latest stable release rather than master)

- Fork the Chakra UI repository on Github
- Clone your fork to your local machine
  `git clone git@github.com:<yourname>/chakra-ui.git`
- Create a branch `git checkout -b my-feature-branch`
- Make your changes, lint, then push to to GitHub with
  `git push --set-upstream origin my-feature-branch`.
- Visit GitHub and make your pull request.

If you have an existing local repository, please update it before you start, to
minimise the chance of merge conflicts.

```sh
git remote add upstream git@github.com:chakra-ui/chakra-ui.git
git checkout master
git pull upstream master
git checkout -b my-feature-branch
```

## Docs contribution

Chakra UI uses NextJS for its documentation website. Thank you in advance and
cheers for contributing to our documentation! We created a simple command to run
it.

```sh
npm run docs
```

You can now access the documentation site locally. Changes to the docs will hot
reload the site.

### Documentation Goals

As an organization, we've established a few goals for our documentation in order
to keep them accessible, friendly, and useful.

- Docs should be friendly and human

Our documentation should be accessible to everyone, regardless of their skill
level with React. This means we should try to write documentation that someone
totally new to React can get started with.

It also means that we want the voice of our docs to be simple and casual. We
want people to fall in love with Chakra and have fun with it, and our docs
should reflect that desire!

- Cover FAQs and common issues

Chakra has a lot going on with it! In order to help users as much as possible,
we want our documentation to cover frequently asked questions and common issues.

- Copy-able

Code snippets should be easily copied and pasted. We should also try to cover as
many use cases as possible for each component, so that users can learn by code
example as much as they can by reading through the docs.

## Code contribution

TODO

## Code of Conduct

### Our Pledge

In the interest of fostering an open and welcoming environment, we as
contributors and maintainers pledge to making participation in our project and
our community a harassment-free experience for everyone, regardless of age, body
size, disability, ethnicity, gender identity and expression, level of
experience, nationality, personal appearance, race, religion, or sexual identity
and orientation.

### Our Standards

Examples of behavior that contributes to creating a positive environment
include:

- Using welcoming and inclusive language
- Being respectful of differing viewpoints and experiences
- Gracefully accepting constructive criticism
- Focusing on what is best for the community
- Showing empathy towards other community members

Examples of unacceptable behavior by participants include:

- The use of sexualized language or imagery and unwelcome sexual attention or
  advances
- Trolling, insulting/derogatory comments, and personal or political attacks
- Public or private harassment
- Publishing others' private information, such as a physical or electronic
  address, without explicit permission
- Other conduct which could reasonably be considered inappropriate in a
  professional setting

### Enforcement

Project maintainers who do not follow or enforce the Code of Conduct in good
faith may face temporary or permanent repercussions as determined by other
members of the project's leadership.

### Attribution

This Code of Conduct is adapted from the [Contributor Covenant][homepage],
version 1.4, available at
[https://contributor-covenant.org/version/1/4][version]

[homepage]: https://contributor-covenant.org
[version]: https://contributor-covenant.org/version/1/4/
