website/pages/docs/data-display/image.mdx, before:

---
title: Image
package: "@chakra-ui/image"
image: "components/image.svg"
description:
  The Image component is used to display images with support for fallback.
---

import ComponentLinks from "../../../src/components/component-links"

The Image component is used to display images.

Image composes `Box` so you can use all the style props and add responsive
styles as well.

<ComponentLinks
  github={{ url: "#" }}
  storybook={{ url: "#" }}
  npm={{ label: "@chakra-ui/image", url: "#" }}
/>

<carbon-ad></carbon-ad>

## Import

```js
import { Image } from "@chakra-ui/core"
```

## Usage

```jsx
<Box boxSize="sm">
  <Image src="https://bit.ly/sage-adebayo" alt="Segun Adebayo" />
</Box>
```

## Size

The size of the image can be adjusted using the `boxSize` prop.

```jsx
<Stack direction="row">
  <Image
    boxSize="100px"
    objectFit="cover"
    src="https://bit.ly/sage-adebayo"
    alt="Segun Adebayo"
  />
  <Image
    boxSize="150px"
    objectFit="cover"
    src="https://bit.ly/dan-abramov"
    alt="Dan Abramov"
  />
  <Image boxSize="200px" src="https://bit.ly/dan-abramov" alt="Dan Abramov" />
</Stack>
```

## Image with border radius

```jsx
<Image
  borderRadius="full"
  boxSize="150px"
  src="https://bit.ly/sage-adebayo"
  alt="Segun Adebayo"
/>
```

## Fallback support

You can provide a fallback image for when there is an error loading the `src` of
the image. You can also opt out of this behavior by passing the `ignoreFallback`
prop.

```jsx
<Image src="gibbresh.png" fallbackSrc="https://via.placeholder.com/150" />
```

### Improvements from v1

- Added support for the `fit` prop to specify how to fit an image within its
  dimension. It uses the `object-fit` property

- Added support for the `align` prop to specify how to align the image within
  its dimension. It uses the `object-position` property

- Added support for custom `fallback` component

## Props

| Name             | Type               | Default | Description                                                                                                                  |
| ---------------- | ------------------ | ------- | ---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| `src`            | `string`           |         | The path to the image source                                                                                                 |
| `fallbackSrc`    | `string`           |         | In event there was an error loading the `src`, specify a fallback. In most cases, this can be an avatar or image placeholder |
| `alt`            | `string`           |         | The alt text that describes the image                                                                                        |
| `onLoad`         | `function`         |         | A callback for when the image `src` has been loaded                                                                          |
| `onError`        | `function`         |         | A callback for when there was an error loading the image `src`                                                               |
| `htmlWidth`      | `string`, `number` |         | The native HTML width attribute of the `img` element                                                                         |
| `htmlHeight`     | `string`, `number` |         | The native HTML height attribute of the `img` element                                                                        |
| `ignoreFallback` | `boolean`          |         | Opt out of the `fallbackSrc` logic and use the `Image` directly                                                              |
| `fit`            | `string`           |         | The CSS `object-fit` property for the image                                                                                  |
| `align`          | `string`           |         | The CSS `object-position` property for the image                                                                             |

Commit message:

docs(image): add usage information for Img

website/pages/docs/data-display/image.mdx, after:

---
title: Image
package: "@chakra-ui/image"
image: "components/image.svg"
description:
  The Image component is used to display images with support for fallback.
---

import ComponentLinks from "../../../src/components/component-links"

The Image component is used to display images.

Image composes `Box` so you can use all the style props and add responsive
styles as well.

<ComponentLinks
  github={{ url: "#" }}
  storybook={{ url: "#" }}
  npm={{ label: "@chakra-ui/image", url: "#" }}
/>

<carbon-ad></carbon-ad>

## Import

```js
import { Image } from "@chakra-ui/core"
```

## Usage

```jsx
<Box boxSize="sm">
  <Image src="https://bit.ly/sage-adebayo" alt="Segun Adebayo" />
</Box>
```

## Size

The size of the image can be adjusted using the `boxSize` prop.

```jsx
<Stack direction="row">
  <Image
    boxSize="100px"
    objectFit="cover"
    src="https://bit.ly/sage-adebayo"
    alt="Segun Adebayo"
  />
  <Image
    boxSize="150px"
    objectFit="cover"
    src="https://bit.ly/dan-abramov"
    alt="Dan Abramov"
  />
  <Image boxSize="200px" src="https://bit.ly/dan-abramov" alt="Dan Abramov" />
</Stack>
```

## Image with border radius

```jsx
<Image
  borderRadius="full"
  boxSize="150px"
  src="https://bit.ly/sage-adebayo"
  alt="Segun Adebayo"
/>
```

## Fallback support

You can provide a fallback image for when there is an error loading the `src` of
the image. You can also opt out of this behavior by passing the `ignoreFallback`
prop.

```jsx
<Image src="gibbresh.png" fallbackSrc="https://via.placeholder.com/150" />
```

### Improvements from v1

- Added support for the `fit` prop to specify how to fit an image within its
  dimension. It uses the `object-fit` property

- Added support for the `align` prop to specify how to align the image within
  its dimension. It uses the `object-position` property

- Added support for custom `fallback` component

## Usage with SSR

```js
import { Img } from "@chakra-ui/core"
```

The Img Component provides a fallback for SSR applications which uses the image
directly without client side checks.

## Props

| Name             | Type               | Default | Description                                                                                                                  |
| ---------------- | ------------------ | ------- | ---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| `src`            | `string`           |         | The path to the image source                                                                                                 |
| `fallbackSrc`    | `string`           |         | In event there was an error loading the `src`, specify a fallback. In most cases, this can be an avatar or image placeholder |
| `alt`            | `string`           |         | The alt text that describes the image                                                                                        |
| `onLoad`         | `function`         |         | A callback for when the image `src` has been loaded                                                                          |
| `onError`        | `function`         |         | A callback for when there was an error loading the image `src`                                                               |
| `htmlWidth`      | `string`, `number` |         | The native HTML width attribute of the `img` element                                                                         |
| `htmlHeight`     | `string`, `number` |         | The native HTML height attribute of the `img` element                                                                        |
| `ignoreFallback` | `boolean`          |         | Opt out of the `fallbackSrc` logic and use the `Image` directly                                                              |
| `fit`            | `string`           |         | The CSS `object-fit` property for the image                                                                                  |
| `align`          | `string`           |         | The CSS `object-position` property for the image                                                                             |
