CONTRIBUTING.md, before:

Thanks for showing interest to contribute to Chakra UI 💖, you rock!

When it comes to open source, there are different ways you can contribute, all
of which are valuable. Here's few guidelines that should help you as you prepare
your contribution.

- [Setup](#setup)
- [Development](#development)
  - [Tooling](#tooling)
  - [Commands](#commands)
    - [Package Aliasing and Yarn Workspace](#package-aliasing-and-yarn-workspace)
  - [Documentation](#documentation)
  - [Storybook](#storybook)
- [Think you found a bug?](#think-you-found-a-bug)
- [Proposing new or changed API?](#proposing-new-or-changed-api)
- [Making a Pull Request?](#making-a-pull-request)
  - [Commit Convention](#commit-convention)
  - [Steps to PR](#steps-to-pr)
  - [Tests](#tests)
- [Want to write a blog post or tutorial](#want-to-write-a-blog-post-or-tutorial)
- [Want to help improve the docs?](#want-to-help-improve-the-docs)
- [License](#license)

## Setup

The following steps will get you setup to contribute changes to this repo:

1. Fork the repo (click the <kbd>Fork</kbd> button at the top right of
   [this page](https://github.com/chakra-ui/chakra-ui))

2. Clone your fork locally

```sh
# in a terminal, cd to parent directory where you want your clone to be, then
git clone https://github.com/<your_github_username>/chakra-ui.git

cd chakra-ui
```

3. Setup all dependencies and build. Chakra UI uses `yarn` and `lerna`, so run
   `yarn prestart`. This command will install dependencies, and then bootstrap
   the repo using `lerna` to build all packages.

> If you run into any issues during this step, kindly reach out to the Chakra UI
> React team here: https://discord.gg/dQHfcWF

## Development

To improve our development process, we've setup a couple of systems. Chakra UI
uses a monorepo structure, this means each component is it's own package and can
use consumed independently.

### Tooling

- [Lerna](https://lerna.js.org/) to manage installation of dependencies and
  running various scripts. We also have yarn workspaces enabled by default.
- [Storybook](https://storybook.js.org/) for rapid UI component development and
  testing
- [Testing Library](https://testing-library.com/) for testing components and
  hooks
- [Gatsby](https://www.gatsbyjs.org/) for a blazing fast documentation website.
  versioning and changelogs

### Commands

**`yarn boot`**: bootstraps the entire project, symlinks all dependencies for
cross-component development and builds all components.

**`yarn bootstrap`**: bootstraps the entire project and symlinks all
dependencies for cross-component development

**`yarn storybook`**: starts storybook server and loads stories in files that
ends with `.stories.tsx`

**`yarn docs:start`**: run the documentation site locally

**`yarn build`**: run build for all component packages

**`yarn test`**: run test for all component packages

**`yarn release`**: publish changed packages

**`yarn [package] <cmd>`**: Run a command on the specific package you're working
on. You can run `build`, `test`, `lint` commands

#### Package Aliasing and Yarn Workspace

Since we're using lerna monorepo + yarn workspaces by default, this enables us
to run commands within component package directly from the root.

Each component is named this way `@chakra-ui/[component]`. Let's say we want to
build the checkbox component. Here's how to do it:

```bash
yarn workspace @chakra-ui/button build

# or

lerna run build --scope @chakra-ui/button
```

**Shortcut:** To make this shorter and more convenient, we've added an alias for
each component in the root `package.json`. Now you can simple do:

```bash
# to build
yarn button build

# to test
yarn button test
yarn button test --watch

# to lint
yarn button lint
```

This alias is particularly useful when you're working on a specific component
and want to avoid running the command for all components.

### Documentation

The documentation site is built with Gatsby. If you'd like to contribute to the
docs, simply run `yarn build`, then `yarn docs:build`, and then
`yarn docs:start`.

### Storybook

Build components in isolation with Storybook using `yarn storybook`.

## Think you found a bug?

Please conform to the issue template and provide a clear path to reproduction
with a code example. The best way to show a bug is by sending a CodeSandbox link

You may wish to use our starters to help you get going:

- JavaScript Starter: https://codesandbox.io/s/chakra-ui-javascript-lzzg9
- TypeScript Starter: https://codesandbox.io/s/chakra-ui-typescript-pomi8

## Proposing new or changed API?

Please provide thoughtful comments and some sample API code. Proposals that
don't line up with our roadmap or doesn't have a thoughtful explanation will be
closed.

## Making a Pull Request?

Pull requests need only the :+1: of two or more collaborators to be merged; when
the PR author is a collaborator, that counts as one.

### Commit Convention

Before you create a Pull Request, please check whether your commits comply with
the commit conventions used in this repository.

When you create a commit we kindly ask you to follow the convention
`category(scope or module): message` in your commit message while using one of
the following categories:

- `feat / feature`: all changes that introduce completely new code or new
  features
- `fix`: changes that fix a bug (ideally you will addtionally reference an issue
  if present)
- `refactor`: any code related change that is not a fix nor a feature
- `docs`: changing existing or creating new documentation (i.e. README, docs for
  usage of a lib or cli usage)
- `build`: all changes regarding the build of the software, changes to
  dependencies or the addition of new dependencies
- `test`: all changes regarding tests (adding new tests or changing existing
  ones)
- `ci`: all changes regarding the configuration of continous integration (i.e.
  github actions, ci system)
- `chore`: all changes to the repository that do not fit into any of the above
  categories

If you are interested in the detailed specification you can visit
https://www.conventionalcommits.org/ or check out the
[Angular Commit Message Guidelines](https://github.com/angular/angular/blob/22b96b9/CONTRIBUTING.md#-commit-message-guidelines).

### Steps to PR

- Fork of the chakra-ui repository and clone your fork
- Create a new branch out of the `develop` branch. We follow the convention
  `[type/scope]`. For example `fix/accordion-hook`, `docs/menu-typo`

  - `type` can be either `docs`, `fix`, `feat`, `build`, or any other
    conventional commit type
  - `scope` is just a short id that describes the scope of work.

### Tests

All commits that fix bugs or add features need a test.

> **Dear Chakra team:** Please do not merge code without tests

## Want to write a blog post or tutorial

That would be amazing! Reach out to the core team here:
https://discord.gg/dQHfcWF. We would love to support you anyway we can.

## Want to help improve the docs?

TODO

By default, the GitHub REST API has an anonymous user rate limit. This can be
hit during heavy local docs development if the server is frequently restarted.

Creating a GitHub token and storing it as the `GITHUB_TOKEN` environment
variable allows the user to avoid the limit.

## License

By contributing your code to the chakra-ui GitHub repository, you agree to
license your contribution under the MIT license.

Commit message:

chore(contributing): add github access token link and instructions

CONTRIBUTING.md, after:

Thanks for showing interest to contribute to Chakra UI 💖, you rock!

When it comes to open source, there are different ways you can contribute, all
of which are valuable. Here's few guidelines that should help you as you prepare
your contribution.

- [Setup](#setup)
- [Development](#development)
  - [Tooling](#tooling)
  - [Commands](#commands)
    - [Package Aliasing and Yarn Workspace](#package-aliasing-and-yarn-workspace)
  - [Documentation](#documentation)
  - [Storybook](#storybook)
- [Think you found a bug?](#think-you-found-a-bug)
- [Proposing new or changed API?](#proposing-new-or-changed-api)
- [Making a Pull Request?](#making-a-pull-request)
  - [Commit Convention](#commit-convention)
  - [Steps to PR](#steps-to-pr)
  - [Tests](#tests)
- [Want to write a blog post or tutorial](#want-to-write-a-blog-post-or-tutorial)
- [Want to help improve the docs?](#want-to-help-improve-the-docs)
- [License](#license)

## Setup

The following steps will get you setup to contribute changes to this repo:

1. Fork the repo (click the <kbd>Fork</kbd> button at the top right of
   [this page](https://github.com/chakra-ui/chakra-ui))

2. Clone your fork locally

```sh
# in a terminal, cd to parent directory where you want your clone to be, then
git clone https://github.com/<your_github_username>/chakra-ui.git

cd chakra-ui
```

3. Setup all dependencies and build. Chakra UI uses `yarn` and `lerna`, so run
   `yarn prestart`. This command will install dependencies, and then bootstrap
   the repo using `lerna` to build all packages.

> If you run into any issues during this step, kindly reach out to the Chakra UI
> React team here: https://discord.gg/dQHfcWF

## Development

To improve our development process, we've setup a couple of systems. Chakra UI
uses a monorepo structure, this means each component is it's own package and can
use consumed independently.

### Tooling

- [Lerna](https://lerna.js.org/) to manage installation of dependencies and
  running various scripts. We also have yarn workspaces enabled by default.
- [Storybook](https://storybook.js.org/) for rapid UI component development and
  testing
- [Testing Library](https://testing-library.com/) for testing components and
  hooks
- [Gatsby](https://www.gatsbyjs.org/) for a blazing fast documentation website.
  versioning and changelogs

### Commands

**`yarn boot`**: bootstraps the entire project, symlinks all dependencies for
cross-component development and builds all components.

**`yarn bootstrap`**: bootstraps the entire project and symlinks all
dependencies for cross-component development

**`yarn storybook`**: starts storybook server and loads stories in files that
ends with `.stories.tsx`

**`yarn docs:start`**: run the documentation site locally

**`yarn build`**: run build for all component packages

**`yarn test`**: run test for all component packages

**`yarn release`**: publish changed packages

**`yarn [package] <cmd>`**: Run a command on the specific package you're working
on. You can run `build`, `test`, `lint` commands

#### Package Aliasing and Yarn Workspace

Since we're using lerna monorepo + yarn workspaces by default, this enables us
to run commands within component package directly from the root.

Each component is named this way `@chakra-ui/[component]`. Let's say we want to
build the checkbox component. Here's how to do it:

```bash
yarn workspace @chakra-ui/button build

# or

lerna run build --scope @chakra-ui/button
```

**Shortcut:** To make this shorter and more convenient, we've added an alias for
each component in the root `package.json`. Now you can simple do:

```bash
# to build
yarn button build

# to test
yarn button test
yarn button test --watch

# to lint
yarn button lint
```

This alias is particularly useful when you're working on a specific component
and want to avoid running the command for all components.

### Documentation

The documentation site is built with Gatsby. If you'd like to contribute to the
docs, simply run `yarn build`, then `yarn docs:build`, and then
`yarn docs:start`.

### Storybook

Build components in isolation with Storybook using `yarn storybook`.

## Think you found a bug?

Please conform to the issue template and provide a clear path to reproduction
with a code example. The best way to show a bug is by sending a CodeSandbox link

You may wish to use our starters to help you get going:

- JavaScript Starter: https://codesandbox.io/s/chakra-ui-javascript-lzzg9
- TypeScript Starter: https://codesandbox.io/s/chakra-ui-typescript-pomi8

## Proposing new or changed API?

Please provide thoughtful comments and some sample API code. Proposals that
don't line up with our roadmap or doesn't have a thoughtful explanation will be
closed.

## Making a Pull Request?

Pull requests need only the :+1: of two or more collaborators to be merged; when
the PR author is a collaborator, that counts as one.

### Commit Convention

Before you create a Pull Request, please check whether your commits comply with
the commit conventions used in this repository.

When you create a commit we kindly ask you to follow the convention
`category(scope or module): message` in your commit message while using one of
the following categories:

- `feat / feature`: all changes that introduce completely new code or new
  features
- `fix`: changes that fix a bug (ideally you will addtionally reference an issue
  if present)
- `refactor`: any code related change that is not a fix nor a feature
- `docs`: changing existing or creating new documentation (i.e. README, docs for
  usage of a lib or cli usage)
- `build`: all changes regarding the build of the software, changes to
  dependencies or the addition of new dependencies
- `test`: all changes regarding tests (adding new tests or changing existing
  ones)
- `ci`: all changes regarding the configuration of continous integration (i.e.
  github actions, ci system)
- `chore`: all changes to the repository that do not fit into any of the above
  categories

If you are interested in the detailed specification you can visit
https://www.conventionalcommits.org/ or check out the
[Angular Commit Message Guidelines](https://github.com/angular/angular/blob/22b96b9/CONTRIBUTING.md#-commit-message-guidelines).

### Steps to PR

- Fork of the chakra-ui repository and clone your fork
- Create a new branch out of the `develop` branch. We follow the convention
  `[type/scope]`. For example `fix/accordion-hook`, `docs/menu-typo`

  - `type` can be either `docs`, `fix`, `feat`, `build`, or any other
    conventional commit type
  - `scope` is just a short id that describes the scope of work.

### Tests

All commits that fix bugs or add features need a test.

> **Dear Chakra team:** Please do not merge code without tests

## Want to write a blog post or tutorial

That would be amazing! Reach out to the core team here:
https://discord.gg/dQHfcWF. We would love to support you anyway we can.

## Want to help improve the docs?

By default, the GitHub REST API has an anonymous user rate limit. This can be
hit during heavy local docs development if the server is frequently restarted.

Creating a GitHub token and storing it as the `GITHUB_TOKEN` environment
variable allows the user to avoid the limit.

Visit
https://github.com/settings/tokens/new?description=Chakra+website+development to
create a new personal access token. Once it's created, be sure to copy the token
string.

You'll then run the following command in the terminal that you'll start the docs
from:

```sh
export GITHUB_TOKEN=<PASTE YOUR TOKEN HERE>
```

## License

By contributing your code to the chakra-ui GitHub repository, you agree to
license your contribution under the MIT license.
