website/pages/docs/feedback/circular-progress.mdx, before:

---
title: Circular Progress
package: "@chakra-ui/progress"
image: "components/progress.svg"
description:
  Circular Progress is used to indicates the progress for determinate and
  indeterminate processes.
---

import ComponentLinks from "../../../src/components/component-links"

Circular Progress is used to indicates the progress for determinate and
indeterminate processes.

<ComponentLinks
  github={{ url: "#" }}
  storybook={{ url: "#" }}
  npm={{ label: "@chakra-ui/progress", url: "#" }}
/>

<carbon-ad></carbon-ad>

- Determinate progress: fills the circular track with color, as the indicator
  moves from 0 to 360 degrees.
- Indeterminate progress: grows and shrinks the indicator while moving along the
  circular track.

## Import

```js
import { CircularProgress, CircularProgressLabel } from "@chakra-ui/core"
```

## Usage

```jsx
<CircularProgress value={80} />
```

### Changing the size

You can add `size` prop to the progressbar to add a custom size.

```jsx
// Change the size to 120px
<CircularProgress value={30} size="120px" />
```

### Changing the thickness

You can add the `thickness` prop to update the thickness of the progress ring.

> The thickness has to be a ratio of the size. Value should be between 0 and 1.

```jsx
<CircularProgress value={59} size="100px" thickness="4px" />
```

### Changing the color

You can add `color` prop to any progressbar to apply any color that exists in
the theme.

```jsx
<CircularProgress value={30} color="orange.400" thickness="12px" />
```

### Adding label

Chakra exports a `CircularProgressLabel` to help you add a label. Pass this
component as children and you'll be able to render the value.

```jsx
<CircularProgress value={40} color="green.400">
  <CircularProgressLabel>40%</CircularProgressLabel>
</CircularProgress>
```

### Indeterminate Progress

Setting the progress to indeterminate means you're not able to determine the
`value` upfront, so you won't need to pass the `value` prop.

```jsx
<CircularProgress color="green.300"></CircularProgress>
```

### Accessibility

- Progress has `role` set to `progressbar` to denote that it's a progress bar
- Progress has `aria-valuenow` set to the percentage completion value passed to
  the component, to ensure the progress percent is visible to screen readers.

## Props

| Name            | Type               | Default | Description                                                                                                      |
| --------------- | ------------------ | ------- | ---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| size            | `string`           | `48px`  | The size of the circular progress in CSS units                                                                   |
| max             | `number`           | `100`   | Maximum value defining 100% progress made (must be higher than 'min')                                            |
| min             | `number`           | `0`     | Minimum value defining 'no progress' (must be lower than 'max')                                                  |
| value           | `number`           |         | Current progress (must be between min/max)                                                                       |
| thickness       | `string or number` | `10px`  | The thickness of progress indicator                                                                              |
| angle           | `number`           | `0`     | Angle to rotate progress indicator by                                                                            |
| capIsRound      | `boolean`          |         | If `true`, the cap of the progress indicator will be rounded                                                     |
| children        | `React.ReactNode`  |         | The content of the circular progress bar. If passed, the content will be inside and centered in the progress bar |
| trackColor      | `string`           | `gray`  | The color name of the progress track. Use a color key in the theme object                                        |
| color           | `string`           | `blue`  | The color of the progress indicator. Use a color key in the theme object                                         |

Commit message:

docs: add guide for as prop and custom components

website/pages/docs/feedback/circular-progress.mdx, after:

---
title: Circular Progress
package: "@chakra-ui/progress"
image: "components/progress.svg"
description:
  Circular Progress is used to indicates the progress for determinate and
  indeterminate processes.
---

import ComponentLinks from "../../../src/components/component-links"

Circular Progress is used to indicates the progress for determinate and
indeterminate processes.

<ComponentLinks
  github={{ url: "#" }}
  storybook={{ url: "#" }}
  npm={{ label: "@chakra-ui/progress", url: "#" }}
/>

<carbon-ad></carbon-ad>

- Determinate progress: fills the circular track with color, as the indicator
  moves from 0 to 360 degrees.
- Indeterminate progress: grows and shrinks the indicator while moving along the
  circular track.

## Import

```js
import { CircularProgress, CircularProgressLabel } from "@chakra-ui/core"
```

## Usage

```jsx
<CircularProgress value={80} />
```

### Changing the size

You can add `size` prop to the progressbar to add a custom size.

```jsx
// Change the size to 120px
<CircularProgress value={30} size="120px" />
```

### Changing the thickness

You can add the `thickness` prop to update the thickness of the progress ring.

> The thickness has to be a ratio of the size. Value should be between 0 and 1.

```jsx
<CircularProgress value={59} size="100px" thickness="4px" />
```

### Changing the color

You can add `color` prop to any progressbar to apply any color that exists in
the theme.

```jsx
<CircularProgress value={30} color="orange.400" thickness="12px" />
```

### Adding label

Chakra exports a `CircularProgressLabel` to help you add a label. Pass this
component as children and you'll be able to render the value.

```jsx
<CircularProgress value={40} color="green.400">
  <CircularProgressLabel>40%</CircularProgressLabel>
</CircularProgress>
```

### Indeterminate Progress

Setting the progress to indeterminate means you're not able to determine the
`value` upfront, so you won't need to pass the `value` prop.

```jsx
<CircularProgress isIndeterminate color="green.300"></CircularProgress>
```

### Accessibility

- Progress has `role` set to `progressbar` to denote that it's a progress bar
- Progress has `aria-valuenow` set to the percentage completion value passed to
  the component, to ensure the progress percent is visible to screen readers.

## Props

| Name            | Type               | Default | Description                                                                                                      |
| --------------- | ------------------ | ------- | ---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| size            | `string`           | `48px`  | The size of the circular progress in CSS units                                                                   |
| max             | `number`           | `100`   | Maximum value defining 100% progress made (must be higher than 'min')                                            |
| min             | `number`           | `0`     | Minimum value defining 'no progress' (must be lower than 'max')                                                  |
| value           | `number`           |         | Current progress (must be between min/max)                                                                       |
| isIndeterminate | `boolean`          |         | Puts the component into 'indeterminate' state; Ignores 'value' prop                                              |
| thickness       | `string or number` | `10px`  | The thickness of progress indicator                                                                              |
| angle           | `number`           | `0`     | Angle to rotate progress indicator by                                                                            |
| capIsRound      | `boolean`          |         | If `true`, the cap of the progress indicator will be rounded                                                     |
| children        | `React.ReactNode`  |         | The content of the circular progress bar. If passed, the content will be inside and centered in the progress bar |
| trackColor      | `string`           | `gray`  | The color name of the progress track. Use a color key in the theme object                                        |
| color           | `string`           | `blue`  | The color of the progress indicator. Use a color key in the theme object                                         |
