website/pages/docs/form/button.mdx, before:

---
title: Button
package: "@chakra-ui/button"
image: "components/button.svg"
description:
  Button component is used to trigger an action or event, such as submitting a
  form, opening a Dialog, canceling an action, or performing a delete operation.
---

import ComponentLinks from "../../../src/components/component-links"

The Button component is used to trigger an action or event, such as submitting a
form, opening a dialog, canceling an action, or performing a delete operation.

<ComponentLinks
  github={{ url: "#" }}
  storybook={{ url: "#" }}
  npm={{ label: "@chakra-ui/button", url: "#" }}
/>

<carbon-ad></carbon-ad>

## Import

```js
import { Button, ButtonGroup } from "@chakra-ui/core"
```

- **Button:** The button component with support for custom icons, spinners, etc.
- **ButtonGroup:** Used to group buttons whose actions are related, with an
  option to flush them together.

## Usage

```jsx
<Button colorScheme="blue">Button</Button>
```

### Button Sizes

Use the `size` prop to change the size of the button. You can set the value to
`xs`, `sm`, `md`, or `lg`.

```jsx
<Stack spacing={4} direction="row" align="center">
  <Button colorScheme="teal" size="xs">
    Button
  </Button>
  <Button colorScheme="teal" size="sm">
    Button
  </Button>
  <Button colorScheme="teal" size="md">
    Button
  </Button>
  <Button colorScheme="teal" size="lg">
    Button
  </Button>
</Stack>
```

### Button variants

Use the `variant` prop to change the visual style of the Button. You can set the
value to `solid`, `ghost`, `outline`, or `link`.

```jsx
<Stack direction="row" spacing={4} align="center">
  <Button colorScheme="teal" variant="solid">
    Button
  </Button>
  <Button colorScheme="teal" variant="outline">
    Button
  </Button>
  <Button colorScheme="teal" variant="ghost">
    Button
  </Button>
  <Button colorScheme="teal" variant="link">
    Button
  </Button>
</Stack>
```

### Button with icon

You can add left and right icons to the Button component using the `leftIcon`
and `RightIcon` props respectively.

> Note: The `leftIcon` and `rightIcon` prop values should be react elements NOT
> strings.

```jsx
<Stack direction="row" spacing={4}>
  <Button leftIcon={<EmailIcon />} colorScheme="teal" variant="solid">
    Email
  </Button>
  <Button rightIcon={<ArrowForwardIcon />} colorScheme="teal" variant="outline">
    Call us
  </Button>
</Stack>
```

You can also use icons from popular libraries like
[react-icons](https://react-icons.github.io/react-icons/) and pass it into the
button.

```jsx
// import { MdBuild , MdCall } from "react-icons/md"

<Stack direction="row" spacing={4}>
  <Button leftIcon={<MdBuild />} colorScheme="pink" variant="solid">
    Settings
  </Button>
  <Button rightIcon={<MdCall />} colorScheme="blue" variant="outline">
    Call us
  </Button>
</Stack>
```

### Button loading state

Pass the `isLoading` prop to show its loading state. By default, the button will
show a spinner and leave the button's width unchanged.

You can also pass the `loadingText` prop to show a spinner and the loading text.

```jsx
<Stack direction="row" spacing={4}>
  <Button isLoading colorScheme="teal" variant="solid">
    Email
  </Button>
  <Button
    isLoading
    loadingText="Submitting"
    colorScheme="teal"
    variant="outline"
  >
    Submit
  </Button>
</Stack>
```

You can also change the spinner itself to use custom loaders as per your design
requirements. Pass the `spinner` prop and set it to a custom react element.

```jsx
<Button
  isLoading
  colorScheme="blue"
  spinner={<BeatLoader size={8} color="white" />}
>
  Click me
</Button>
```

### Social Buttons

We've included the colors for common social media platforms, and you can simply
use their buttons via the `colorScheme` prop.

```jsx
<HStack>
  <Button colorScheme="facebook" leftIcon={<FaFacebook />}>
    Facebook
  </Button>
  <Button colorScheme="twitter" leftIcon={<FaTwitter />}>
    Twitter
  </Button>
</HStack>
```

### Grouping Buttons

You can use the `Stack` or `ButtonGroup` component to group buttons. When you
use the `ButtonGroup` component, it allows you:

- Set the `size` and `variant` of all buttons within it.
- Add spacing between the buttons
- Flush the buttons together by removing the border radius of the its children
  as needed.

```jsx
<ButtonGroup variant="outline" spacing="6">
  <Button colorScheme="blue">Save</Button>
  <Button>Cancel</Button>
</ButtonGroup>
```

To flush the buttons, pass the `isAttached` prop

```jsx
<ButtonGroup size="sm" isAttached variant="outline">
  <Button mr="-px">Save</Button>
  <IconButton aria-label="Add to friends" icon={<AddIcon />} />
</ButtonGroup>
```

## Accessibility

- Button has `role` of `button`.
- When Button has focus, <kbd>Space</kbd> or <kbd>Enter</kbd> activates it.

## Composition

All props you pass (`variant`, `colorScheme`, etc.) are converted to style
props. This means you can override any style of the Button via props.

```jsx
// The size prop affects the height of the button
// but I can still override it by passing a custom height
<Button
  size="md"
  height="48px"
  width="200px"
  border="2px"
  borderColor="green.500"
>
  Button
</Button>
```

---

## Custom Button

In the event that you need to make your own custom button, you can leverage the
`Box` component. It provides the `hover`, `focus`, `active` and `disabled` style
props to style the button.

```jsx
// Button from facebook.com
<Box
  as="button"
  height="24px"
  lineHeight="1.2"
  transition="all 0.2s cubic-bezier(.08,.52,.52,1)"
  border="1px"
  px="8px"
  borderRadius="2px"
  fontSize="14px"
  fontWeight="semibold"
  bg="#f5f6f7"
  borderColor="#ccd0d5"
  color="#4b4f56"
  _hover={{ bg: "#ebedf0" }}
  _active={{
    bg: "#dddfe2",
    transform: "scale(0.98)",
    borderColor: "#bec3c9",
  }}
  _focus={{
    boxShadow:
      "0 0 1px 2px rgba(88, 144, 255, .75), 0 1px 1px rgba(0, 0, 0, .15)",
  }}
>
  Join Group
</Box>
```

## Props

Button composes the `Box` component so you can pass all props for `Box`. These
are props specific to the Button component.

| Name          | Type                                              | Default | Description                                                                                               |
| ------------- | ------------------------------------------------- | ------- | --------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| `aria-label`  | `string`                                          |         | An accessible label for the button, useful when you render only an icon in the button                     |
| `colorScheme` | `string`                                          | `blue`  | The color scheme of the button—one of the colors from `theme.colors`.                                     |
| `leftIcon`    | `ReactElement`                                    |         | The left icon element to use in the button                                                                |
| `rightIcon`   | `ReactElement`                                    |         | The right icon element to use in the button                                                               |
| `spinner`     | `ReactElement`                                    |         | The spinner element to use when `isLoading` is set to `true`                                              |
| `variant`     | `outline`, `ghost`, `unstyled` , `link` , `solid` | `solid` | The variant of the button style to use.                                                                   |
| `isDisabled`  | `boolean`                                         |         | If `true`, the button will be disabled.                                                                   |
| `isLoading`   | `boolean`                                         |         | If `true`, the button will show a spinner.                                                                |
| `loadingText` | `string`                                          |         | The label to show in the button when `isLoading` is true. If no text is passed, it only shows the spinner |
| `size`        | `sm`, `md`, `lg`                                  | `md`    | The size of the button.                                                                                   |

Commit message:

docs: add react-icons note for social buttons icons

website/pages/docs/form/button.mdx, after:

---
title: Button
package: "@chakra-ui/button"
image: "components/button.svg"
description:
  Button component is used to trigger an action or event, such as submitting a
  form, opening a Dialog, canceling an action, or performing a delete operation.
---

import ComponentLinks from "../../../src/components/component-links"

The Button component is used to trigger an action or event, such as submitting a
form, opening a dialog, canceling an action, or performing a delete operation.

<ComponentLinks
  github={{ url: "#" }}
  storybook={{ url: "#" }}
  npm={{ label: "@chakra-ui/button", url: "#" }}
/>

<carbon-ad></carbon-ad>

## Import

```js
import { Button, ButtonGroup } from "@chakra-ui/core"
```

- **Button:** The button component with support for custom icons, spinners, etc.
- **ButtonGroup:** Used to group buttons whose actions are related, with an
  option to flush them together.

## Usage

```jsx
<Button colorScheme="blue">Button</Button>
```

### Button Sizes

Use the `size` prop to change the size of the button. You can set the value to
`xs`, `sm`, `md`, or `lg`.

```jsx
<Stack spacing={4} direction="row" align="center">
  <Button colorScheme="teal" size="xs">
    Button
  </Button>
  <Button colorScheme="teal" size="sm">
    Button
  </Button>
  <Button colorScheme="teal" size="md">
    Button
  </Button>
  <Button colorScheme="teal" size="lg">
    Button
  </Button>
</Stack>
```

### Button variants

Use the `variant` prop to change the visual style of the Button. You can set the
value to `solid`, `ghost`, `outline`, or `link`.

```jsx
<Stack direction="row" spacing={4} align="center">
  <Button colorScheme="teal" variant="solid">
    Button
  </Button>
  <Button colorScheme="teal" variant="outline">
    Button
  </Button>
  <Button colorScheme="teal" variant="ghost">
    Button
  </Button>
  <Button colorScheme="teal" variant="link">
    Button
  </Button>
</Stack>
```

### Button with icon

You can add left and right icons to the Button component using the `leftIcon`
and `RightIcon` props respectively.

> Note: The `leftIcon` and `rightIcon` prop values should be react elements NOT
> strings.

```jsx
<Stack direction="row" spacing={4}>
  <Button leftIcon={<EmailIcon />} colorScheme="teal" variant="solid">
    Email
  </Button>
  <Button rightIcon={<ArrowForwardIcon />} colorScheme="teal" variant="outline">
    Call us
  </Button>
</Stack>
```

You can also use icons from popular libraries like
[react-icons](https://react-icons.github.io/react-icons/) and pass it into the
button.

```jsx
// import { MdBuild , MdCall } from "react-icons/md"

<Stack direction="row" spacing={4}>
  <Button leftIcon={<MdBuild />} colorScheme="pink" variant="solid">
    Settings
  </Button>
  <Button rightIcon={<MdCall />} colorScheme="blue" variant="outline">
    Call us
  </Button>
</Stack>
```

### Button loading state

Pass the `isLoading` prop to show its loading state. By default, the button will
show a spinner and leave the button's width unchanged.

You can also pass the `loadingText` prop to show a spinner and the loading text.

```jsx
<Stack direction="row" spacing={4}>
  <Button isLoading colorScheme="teal" variant="solid">
    Email
  </Button>
  <Button
    isLoading
    loadingText="Submitting"
    colorScheme="teal"
    variant="outline"
  >
    Submit
  </Button>
</Stack>
```

You can also change the spinner itself to use custom loaders as per your design
requirements. Pass the `spinner` prop and set it to a custom react element.

```jsx
<Button
  isLoading
  colorScheme="blue"
  spinner={<BeatLoader size={8} color="white" />}
>
  Click me
</Button>
```

### Social Buttons

We've included the colors for common social media platforms, and you can simply
use their buttons via the `colorScheme` prop.

```jsx
<HStack>
  <Button colorScheme="facebook" leftIcon={<FaFacebook />}>
    Facebook
  </Button>
  <Button colorScheme="twitter" leftIcon={<FaTwitter />}>
    Twitter
  </Button>
</HStack>
```

The Facebook and Twitter icons in the above example are available from
[`react-icons`](https://react-icons.netlify.com/#/) as `FaFacebook` and
`FaTwitter`, found in the `react-icons/fa` import.

### Grouping Buttons

You can use the `Stack` or `ButtonGroup` component to group buttons. When you
use the `ButtonGroup` component, it allows you:

- Set the `size` and `variant` of all buttons within it.
- Add spacing between the buttons
- Flush the buttons together by removing the border radius of the its children
  as needed.

```jsx
<ButtonGroup variant="outline" spacing="6">
  <Button colorScheme="blue">Save</Button>
  <Button>Cancel</Button>
</ButtonGroup>
```

To flush the buttons, pass the `isAttached` prop

```jsx
<ButtonGroup size="sm" isAttached variant="outline">
  <Button mr="-px">Save</Button>
  <IconButton aria-label="Add to friends" icon={<AddIcon />} />
</ButtonGroup>
```

## Accessibility

- Button has `role` of `button`.
- When Button has focus, <kbd>Space</kbd> or <kbd>Enter</kbd> activates it.

## Composition

All props you pass (`variant`, `colorScheme`, etc.) are converted to style
props. This means you can override any style of the Button via props.

```jsx
// The size prop affects the height of the button
// but I can still override it by passing a custom height
<Button
  size="md"
  height="48px"
  width="200px"
  border="2px"
  borderColor="green.500"
>
  Button
</Button>
```

---

## Custom Button

In the event that you need to make your own custom button, you can leverage the
`Box` component. It provides the `hover`, `focus`, `active` and `disabled` style
props to style the button.

```jsx
// Button from facebook.com
<Box
  as="button"
  height="24px"
  lineHeight="1.2"
  transition="all 0.2s cubic-bezier(.08,.52,.52,1)"
  border="1px"
  px="8px"
  borderRadius="2px"
  fontSize="14px"
  fontWeight="semibold"
  bg="#f5f6f7"
  borderColor="#ccd0d5"
  color="#4b4f56"
  _hover={{ bg: "#ebedf0" }}
  _active={{
    bg: "#dddfe2",
    transform: "scale(0.98)",
    borderColor: "#bec3c9",
  }}
  _focus={{
    boxShadow:
      "0 0 1px 2px rgba(88, 144, 255, .75), 0 1px 1px rgba(0, 0, 0, .15)",
  }}
>
  Join Group
</Box>
```

## Props

Button composes the `Box` component so you can pass all props for `Box`. These
are props specific to the Button component.

| Name          | Type                                              | Default | Description                                                                                               |
| ------------- | ------------------------------------------------- | ------- | --------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| `aria-label`  | `string`                                          |         | An accessible label for the button, useful when you render only an icon in the button                     |
| `colorScheme` | `string`                                          | `blue`  | The color scheme of the button—one of the colors from `theme.colors`.                                     |
| `leftIcon`    | `ReactElement`                                    |         | The left icon element to use in the button                                                                |
| `rightIcon`   | `ReactElement`                                    |         | The right icon element to use in the button                                                               |
| `spinner`     | `ReactElement`                                    |         | The spinner element to use when `isLoading` is set to `true`                                              |
| `variant`     | `outline`, `ghost`, `unstyled` , `link` , `solid` | `solid` | The variant of the button style to use.                                                                   |
| `isDisabled`  | `boolean`                                         |         | If `true`, the button will be disabled.                                                                   |
| `isLoading`   | `boolean`                                         |         | If `true`, the button will show a spinner.                                                                |
| `loadingText` | `string`                                          |         | The label to show in the button when `isLoading` is true. If no text is passed, it only shows the spinner |
| `size`        | `sm`, `md`, `lg`                                  | `md`    | The size of the button.                                                                                   |
