website/pages/docs/form/checkbox.mdx, before:

---
title: Checkbox
package: "@chakra-ui/checkbox"
image: "components/checkbox.svg"
description:
  Checkbox component is used in forms when a user needs to select multiple
  values from several options.
---

import ComponentLinks from "../../../src/components/component-links"

The Checkbox component is used in forms when a user needs to select multiple
values from several options.

<ComponentLinks
  github={{ url: "#" }}
  storybook={{ url: "#" }}
  npm={{ label: "@chakra-ui/checkbox", url: "#" }}
/>

<carbon-ad></carbon-ad>

Native HTML checkboxes are 100% accessible by default, so we used a
[very common CSS technique](https://dev.to/lkopacz/create-custom-keyboard-accessible-checkboxes-2036)
to style the checkboxes.

## Import

```js
import { Checkbox, CheckboxGroup } from "@chakra-ui/core"
```

## Usage

Basic usage of checkbox.

```jsx
<Checkbox defaultIsChecked>Checkbox</Checkbox>
```

### Disabled Checkbox

```jsx
<Stack spacing={10} direction="row">
  <Checkbox isDisabled>Checkbox</Checkbox>
  <Checkbox isDisabled defaultIsChecked>
    Checkbox
  </Checkbox>
</Stack>
```

### Checkbox with custom color

You can override the color scheme of the checkbox to any color key specified in
`theme.colors`.

```jsx
<Stack spacing={10} direction="row">
  <Checkbox colorScheme="red" defaultIsChecked>
    Checkbox
  </Checkbox>
  <Checkbox colorScheme="green" defaultIsChecked>
    Checkbox
  </Checkbox>
</Stack>
```

### Checkbox sizes

Pass the `size` prop to change the size of the Checkbox. Values can be either
`sm`, `md` or `lg`.

```jsx
<HStack spacing={10} direction="row">
  <Checkbox size="sm" colorScheme="red">
    Checkbox
  </Checkbox>
  <Checkbox size="md" colorScheme="green" defaultIsChecked>
    Checkbox
  </Checkbox>
  <Checkbox size="lg" colorScheme="orange" defaultIsChecked>
    Checkbox
  </Checkbox>
</HStack>
```

### Invalid Checkbox

```jsx
<Checkbox isInvalid>Checkbox</Checkbox>
```

### Indeterminate

```jsx
function IndeterminateExample() {
  const [checkedItems, setCheckedItems] = React.useState([false, false])

  const allChecked = checkedItems.every(Boolean)
  const isIndeterminate = checkedItems.some(Boolean) && !allChecked

  return (
    <>
      <Checkbox
        isChecked={allChecked}
        isIndeterminate={isIndeterminate}
        onChange={(e) => setCheckedItems([e.target.checked, e.target.checked])}
        children="Parent Checkbox"
      />
      <Stack pl={6} mt={1} spacing={1}>
        <Checkbox
          isChecked={checkedItems[0]}
          onChange={(e) => setCheckedItems([e.target.checked, checkedItems[1]])}
          children="Child Checkbox 1"
        />
        <Checkbox
          isChecked={checkedItems[1]}
          onChange={(e) => setCheckedItems([checkedItems[0], e.target.checked])}
          children="Child Checkbox 2"
        />
      </Stack>
    </>
  )
}
```

### CheckboxGroup

Chakra exports a `CheckboxGroup` component to help manage the checked state of
its children.

```jsx
<CheckboxGroup colorScheme="green" defaultValue={["naruto", "kakashi"]}>
  <HStack>
    <Checkbox value="naruto">Naruto</Checkbox>
    <Checkbox value="sasuke">Sasuke</Checkbox>
    <Checkbox value="kakashi">kakashi</Checkbox>
  </HStack>
</CheckboxGroup>
```

## Props

### Checkbox Props

| Name             | Type                 | Default | Description                                                                                                              |
| ---------------- | -------------------- | ------- | ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------ |
| id               | `string`             |         | The id assigned to input field                                                                                           |
| name             | `string`             |         | The name of the input field in a checkbox (Useful for form submission)                                                   |
| value            | `string` or `number` |         | The value to be used in the checkbox input. This is the value that will be returned on form submission.                  |
| colorScheme      | `string`             |         | The color of the checkbox when it's checked. This should be one of the color keys in the theme (e.g."green", "red")      |
| defaultIsChecked | `boolean`            |         | If `true`, the checkbox will be initially checked.                                                                       |
| isChecked        | `boolean`            |         | If `true`, the checkbox will be checked. You'll need to pass `onChange` to update it's value (since it's now controlled) |
| isIndeterminate  | `boolean`            |         | If `true`, the checkbox will be indeterminate. This only affects the icon shown inside checkbox                          |
| isFullWidth      | `boolean`            |         | If `true`, the checkbox should take up the full width of the parent.                                                     |
| size             | `sm`, `md`, `lg`     | `md`    | The size (width and height) of the checkbox                                                                              |
| isDisabled       | `boolean`            |         | If `true`, the checkbox will be disabled                                                                                 |
| isInvalid        | `boolean`            |         | If `true`, the checkbox is marked as invalid. Changes style of unchecked state.                                          |
| children         | `React.ReactNode`    |         | The children of the checkbox.                                                                                            |
| onChange         | `function`           |         | Function called when the state of the checkbox changes.                                                                  |
| onBlur           | `function`           |         | Function called when you blur out of the checkbox.                                                                       |
| onFocus          | `function`           |         | Function called when the checkbox receive focus.                                                                         |
| aria-label       | `string`             |         | An accessible label for the checkbox in event there's no visible label or `children` passed                              |
| aria-labelledby  | `string`             |         | Id that points to the label for the checkbox in event no `children` was passed                                           |

### CheckboxGroup Props

CheckboxGroup composes `Box` so you can pass all `Box` props.

| Name         | Type                                       | Default | Description                                                                                                         |
| ------------ | ------------------------------------------ | ------- | ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| id           | `string`                                   |         | The id of the checkbox group.                                                                                       |
| value        | `Array<Checkbox["value"]>`                 |         | The value of the checkbox group                                                                                     |
| defaultValue | `Array<Checkbox["value"]>`                 |         | The initial value of the checkbox group                                                                             |
| colorScheme  | `string`                                   |         | The color of the checkbox when it's checked. This should be one of the color keys in the theme (e.g."green", "red") |
| onChange     | `(values: Array<Checkbox["value"]>): void` |         | The callback fired when any children Checkbox is checked or unchecked                                               |
| children     | `React.ReactNode`                          |         | The content of the checkbox group. Must be the `Checkbox` component                                                 |
| spacing      | `StyledSystem.MarginProps`                 | `8px`   | The space between each checkbox                                                                                     |
| size         | `sm`, `md`, `lg`                           | `md`    | The size of the checkbox, it's forwarded to all children checkbox.                                                  |

Commit message:

docs: mass updates to component docs

website/pages/docs/form/checkbox.mdx, after:

---
title: Checkbox
package: "@chakra-ui/checkbox"
image: "components/checkbox.svg"
description:
  Checkbox component is used in forms when a user needs to select multiple
  values from several options.
---

import ComponentLinks from "../../../src/components/component-links"

The Checkbox component is used in forms when a user needs to select multiple
values from several options.

<ComponentLinks
  github={{ url: "#" }}
  storybook={{ url: "#" }}
  npm={{ label: "@chakra-ui/checkbox", url: "#" }}
/>

<carbon-ad></carbon-ad>

Native HTML checkboxes are 100% accessible by default, so we used a
[very common CSS technique](https://dev.to/lkopacz/create-custom-keyboard-accessible-checkboxes-2036)
to style the checkboxes.

## Import

```js
import { Checkbox, CheckboxGroup } from "@chakra-ui/core"
```

## Usage

Basic usage of checkbox.

```jsx
<Checkbox defaultIsChecked>Checkbox</Checkbox>
```

### Disabled Checkbox

```jsx
<Stack spacing={10} direction="row">
  <Checkbox isDisabled>Checkbox</Checkbox>
  <Checkbox isDisabled defaultIsChecked>
    Checkbox
  </Checkbox>
</Stack>
```

### Checkbox with custom color

You can override the color scheme of the checkbox to any color key specified in
`theme.colors`.

```jsx
<Stack spacing={10} direction="row">
  <Checkbox colorScheme="red" defaultIsChecked>
    Checkbox
  </Checkbox>
  <Checkbox colorScheme="green" defaultIsChecked>
    Checkbox
  </Checkbox>
</Stack>
```

### Checkbox sizes

Pass the `size` prop to change the size of the Checkbox. Values can be either
`sm`, `md` or `lg`.

```jsx
<HStack spacing={10} direction="row">
  <Checkbox size="sm" colorScheme="red">
    Checkbox
  </Checkbox>
  <Checkbox size="md" colorScheme="green" defaultIsChecked>
    Checkbox
  </Checkbox>
  <Checkbox size="lg" colorScheme="orange" defaultIsChecked>
    Checkbox
  </Checkbox>
</HStack>
```

### Invalid Checkbox

```jsx
<Checkbox isInvalid>Checkbox</Checkbox>
```

### Changing the spacing

We added the `spacing` prop to customize the spacing between the checkbox and
label text

```jsx live=false
<Checkbox spacing="1rem">Option</Checkbox>
```

### Changing the icon color and size

You can customize the color and size of the check icon by passing the
`iconColor` and `iconSize` prop.

```jsx live=false
<Checkbox iconColor="blue.400" iconSize="1rem">
  Option
</Checkbox>
```

### Indeterminate

```jsx
function IndeterminateExample() {
  const [checkedItems, setCheckedItems] = React.useState([false, false])

  const allChecked = checkedItems.every(Boolean)
  const isIndeterminate = checkedItems.some(Boolean) && !allChecked

  return (
    <>
      <Checkbox
        isChecked={allChecked}
        isIndeterminate={isIndeterminate}
        onChange={(e) => setCheckedItems([e.target.checked, e.target.checked])}
        children="Parent Checkbox"
      />
      <Stack pl={6} mt={1} spacing={1}>
        <Checkbox
          isChecked={checkedItems[0]}
          onChange={(e) => setCheckedItems([e.target.checked, checkedItems[1]])}
          children="Child Checkbox 1"
        />
        <Checkbox
          isChecked={checkedItems[1]}
          onChange={(e) => setCheckedItems([checkedItems[0], e.target.checked])}
          children="Child Checkbox 2"
        />
      </Stack>
    </>
  )
}
```

### CheckboxGroup

Chakra exports a `CheckboxGroup` component to help manage the checked state of
its children.

```jsx
<CheckboxGroup colorScheme="green" defaultValue={["naruto", "kakashi"]}>
  <HStack>
    <Checkbox value="naruto">Naruto</Checkbox>
    <Checkbox value="sasuke">Sasuke</Checkbox>
    <Checkbox value="kakashi">kakashi</Checkbox>
  </HStack>
</CheckboxGroup>
```

### Hooks

The `useCheckbox` hook is exported with state and focus management logic for use
in creating tailor-made checkbox component for your application

The `useCheckboxGroup` hook is exported with state management logic for use in
creating tailor-made checkbox group component for your application

## Props

### Checkbox Props

| Name             | Type                 | Default | Description                                                                                                              |
| ---------------- | -------------------- | ------- | ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------ |
| id               | `string`             |         | The id assigned to input field                                                                                           |
| name             | `string`             |         | The name of the input field in a checkbox (Useful for form submission)                                                   |
| value            | `string` or `number` |         | The value to be used in the checkbox input. This is the value that will be returned on form submission.                  |
| colorScheme      | `string`             |         | The color of the checkbox when it's checked. This should be one of the color keys in the theme (e.g."green", "red")      |
| defaultIsChecked | `boolean`            |         | If `true`, the checkbox will be initially checked.                                                                       |
| isChecked        | `boolean`            |         | If `true`, the checkbox will be checked. You'll need to pass `onChange` to update it's value (since it's now controlled) |
| isIndeterminate  | `boolean`            |         | If `true`, the checkbox will be indeterminate. This only affects the icon shown inside checkbox                          |
| isFullWidth      | `boolean`            |         | If `true`, the checkbox should take up the full width of the parent.                                                     |
| size             | `sm`, `md`, `lg`     | `md`    | The size (width and height) of the checkbox                                                                              |
| isDisabled       | `boolean`            |         | If `true`, the checkbox will be disabled                                                                                 |
| isInvalid        | `boolean`            |         | If `true`, the checkbox is marked as invalid. Changes style of unchecked state.                                          |
| children         | `React.ReactNode`    |         | The children of the checkbox.                                                                                            |
| onChange         | `function`           |         | Function called when the state of the checkbox changes.                                                                  |
| onBlur           | `function`           |         | Function called when you blur out of the checkbox.                                                                       |
| onFocus          | `function`           |         | Function called when the checkbox receive focus.                                                                         |
| aria-label       | `string`             |         | An accessible label for the checkbox in event there's no visible label or `children` passed                              |
| aria-labelledby  | `string`             |         | Id that points to the label for the checkbox in event no `children` was passed                                           |

### CheckboxGroup Props

CheckboxGroup composes `Box` so you can pass all `Box` props.

| Name         | Type                                       | Default | Description                                                                                                         |
| ------------ | ------------------------------------------ | ------- | ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| id           | `string`                                   |         | The id of the checkbox group.                                                                                       |
| value        | `Array<Checkbox["value"]>`                 |         | The value of the checkbox group                                                                                     |
| defaultValue | `Array<Checkbox["value"]>`                 |         | The initial value of the checkbox group                                                                             |
| colorScheme  | `string`                                   |         | The color of the checkbox when it's checked. This should be one of the color keys in the theme (e.g."green", "red") |
| onChange     | `(values: Array<Checkbox["value"]>): void` |         | The callback fired when any children Checkbox is checked or unchecked                                               |
| children     | `React.ReactNode`                          |         | The content of the checkbox group. Must be the `Checkbox` component                                                 |
| spacing      | `StyledSystem.MarginProps`                 | `8px`   | The space between each checkbox                                                                                     |
| size         | `sm`, `md`, `lg`                           | `md`    | The size of the checkbox, it's forwarded to all children checkbox.                                                  |
