website/pages/docs/form/editable.mdx, before:

---
title: Editable
package: "@chakra-ui/editable"
image: "components/editable-text.svg"
description:
  EditableText is used for inline renaming of some text. It appears as normal UI
  text but transforms into a text input field when the user clicks or focuses on
  it.
---

Editable Text is used for inline renaming of some text. It appears as normal UI
text but transforms into a text input field when the user clicks on or focuses
it.

<ComponentLinks
  github={{ url: "#" }}
  storybook={{ url: "#" }}
  npm={{ label: "@chakra-ui/editable", url: "#" }}
/>

<carbon-ad></carbon-ad>

The text input inherits all font styling from its parent in order to make the
edit and read view transition seamless.

## Import

Chakra UI exports 3 components to handle this functionality.

- `Editable`: The wrapper component that provides context value.
- `EditableInput`: The edit view of the component. It shows when you click or
  focus on the text.
- `EditablePreview`: The read-only view of the component.

```js
import { Editable, EditableInput, EditablePreview } from "@chakra-ui/core"
```

## Usage

```jsx
// Click the text to edit
<Editable defaultValue="Take some chakra">
  <EditablePreview />
  <EditableInput />
</Editable>
```

### With custom controls

In some cases, you might need to use custom controls to toggle the edit and read
mode. We use the render prop pattern to provide access to the internal state of
the component.

> Ensure you set `isPreviewFocusable` and `submitOnBlur` to `false` for this to
> work.

```jsx
function CustomControlsExample() {
  /* Here's a custom control */
  function EditableControls({ isEditing, onSubmit, onCancel, onEdit }) {
    return isEditing ? (
      <ButtonGroup justifyContent="center" size="sm">
        <IconButton icon={<CheckIcon />} onClick={onSubmit} />
        <IconButton icon={<CloseIcon />} onClick={onCancel} />
      </ButtonGroup>
    ) : (
      <Flex justifyContent="center">
        <IconButton size="sm" icon={<EditIcon />} onClick={onEdit} />
      </Flex>
    )
  }

  return (
    <Editable
      textAlign="center"
      defaultValue="Rasengan ⚡️"
      fontSize="2xl"
      isPreviewFocusable={false}
      submitOnBlur={false}
    >
      {(props) => (
        <>
          <EditablePreview />
          <EditableInput />
          <EditableControls {...props} />
        </>
      )}
    </Editable>
  )
}
```

## Props

### Editable Props

<PropsTable of="Editable" />

Commit message:

chore(eslint): add tsconfig parserOptions only for ts,tsx

website/pages/docs/form/editable.mdx, after:

---
title: Editable
package: "@chakra-ui/editable"
image: "components/editable-text.svg"
description:
  EditableText is used for inline renaming of some text. It appears as normal UI
  text but transforms into a text input field when the user clicks or focuses on
  it.
---

Editable Text is used for inline renaming of some text. It appears as normal UI
text but transforms into a text input field when the user clicks on or focuses
it.

<ComponentLinks
  github={{ url: "#" }}
  storybook={{ url: "#" }}
  npm={{ label: "@chakra-ui/editable", url: "#" }}
/>

<carbon-ad></carbon-ad>

The text input inherits all font styling from its parent in order to make the
edit and read view transition seamless.

## Import

Chakra UI exports 3 components to handle this functionality.

- `Editable`: The wrapper component that provides context value.
- `EditableInput`: The edit view of the component. It shows when you click or
  focus on the text.
- `EditablePreview`: The read-only view of the component.

```js
import { Editable, EditableInput, EditablePreview } from "@chakra-ui/core"
```

## Usage

```jsx
// Click the text to edit
<Editable defaultValue="Take some chakra">
  <EditablePreview />
  <EditableInput />
</Editable>
```

### With custom controls

In some cases, you might need to use custom controls to toggle the edit and read
mode. We use the render prop pattern to provide access to the internal state of
the component.

> Ensure you set `isPreviewFocusable` and `submitOnBlur` to `false` for this to
> work.

```jsx
function CustomControlsExample() {
  /* Here's a custom control */
  function EditableControls({ isEditing, onSubmit, onCancel, onEdit }) {
    return isEditing ? (
      <ButtonGroup justifyContent="center" size="sm">
        <IconButton icon={<CheckIcon />} onClick={onSubmit} />
        <IconButton icon={<CloseIcon />} onClick={onCancel} />
      </ButtonGroup>
    ) : (
      <Flex justifyContent="center">
        <IconButton size="sm" icon={<EditIcon />} onClick={onEdit} />
      </Flex>
    )
  }

  return (
    <Editable
      textAlign="center"
      defaultValue="Rasengan ⚡️"
      fontSize="2xl"
      isPreviewFocusable={false}
      submitOnBlur={false}
    >
      {(props) => (
        <>
          <EditablePreview />
          <EditableInput />
          <EditableControls {...props} />
        </>
      )}
    </Editable>
  )
}
```

## Props

### Editable Props

| Name               | Type              | Default              | Description                                                                                                                               |
| ------------------ | ----------------- | -------------------- | ----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| value              | `string`          |                      | Text value of the controlled input.                                                                                                       |
| defaultValue       | `string`          |                      | The initial value of the `Editable` in both edit & preview mode                                                                             |
| placeholder        | `string`          | `"Click to edit..."` | The placeholder text when the value is empty.                                                                                             |
| isDisabled         | `string`          |                      | If `true`, the `Editable` will be disabled.                                                                                                 |
| onChange           | `func`            |                      | Callback invoked when user changes input.                                                                                                 |
| onCancel           | `string`          |                      | Callback invoked when user cancels input with the `Esc` key. It provides the last confirmed value as argument.                            |
| onSubmit           | `string`          |                      | Callback invoked when user confirms value with `enter` key or by blurring the input.                                                      |
| onEdit             | `string`          |                      | Callback invoked once the user enters edit mode.                                                                                          |
| isPreviewFocusable | `boolean`         | `true`               | If `true`, the read only view, has a `tabIndex` set to `0` so it can receive focus via the keyboard or click.                             |
| startWithEditView  | `boolean`         |                      | If `true`, the `Editable` will start with edit mode by default.                                                                             |
| submitOnBlur       | `boolean`         | `true`               | If `true`, it'll update the value onBlur and turn off the edit mode.                                                                      |
| selectAllOnFocus   | `boolean`         | `true`               | If `true`, the input's text will be highlighted on focus.                                                                                 |
| children           | `React.ReactNode` |                      | The content of the EditableText. Ideally only `EditablePreview` and `EditableInput` should be the children but you add other elements too. |
