website/pages/docs/form/number-input.mdx, before:

---
title: Number Input
package: "@chakra-ui/number-input"
image: "components/number-input.svg"
description:
  The NumberInput component is similar to the Input component, but it has
  controls for incrementing or decrementing numeric values.
---

The `NumberInput` component is similar to the [Input](/docs/form/input) component,
but it has controls for incrementing or decrementing numeric values.

<ComponentLinks
  github={{ url: "#" }}
  storybook={{ url: "#" }}
  npm={{ label: "@chakra-ui/number-input", url: "#" }}
/>

<carbon-ad></carbon-ad>

It follows the
[WAI-ARIA authoring practices](https://www.w3.org/TR/wai-aria-practices-1.1/#spinbutton)
for the Spinbutton widget.

## Import

Chakra UI exports 5 components for the NumberInput.

- `NumberInput`: The wrapper that provides context and logic to the components.
- `NumberInputField`: The `input` field itself.
- `NumberInputStepper`: The wrapper for the input's stepper buttons.
- `NumberIncrementStepper`: The button to increment the value of the input.
- `NumberDecrementStepper`: The button to decrement the value of the input.

```js
import {
  NumberInput,
  NumberInputField,
  NumberInputStepper,
  NumberIncrementStepper,
  NumberDecrementStepper,
} from "@chakra-ui/core"
```

## Usage

The `NumberInput` is composed of smaller components to give you control of the
styling of each part.

```jsx
<NumberInput>
  <NumberInputField />
  <NumberInputStepper>
    <NumberIncrementStepper />
    <NumberDecrementStepper />
  </NumberInputStepper>
</NumberInput>
```

### Setting a minimum and minimum value

Pass the `min` prop or `max` prop to set an upper and lower limit for the input.
By default, the input will restrict the value to stay within the specified
range.

```jsx
<NumberInput defaultValue={15} min={10} max={20}>
  <NumberInputField />
  <NumberInputStepper>
    <NumberIncrementStepper />
    <NumberDecrementStepper />
  </NumberInputStepper>
</NumberInput>
```

### Setting the step size

Pass the `step` prop to change the step size when you increment or decrement the
value. By default, the value is rounded to match the number of decimals in the
`step`.

```jsx
<NumberInput step={5} defaultValue={15} min={10} max={30}>
  <NumberInputField />
  <NumberInputStepper>
    <NumberIncrementStepper />
    <NumberDecrementStepper />
  </NumberInputStepper>
</NumberInput>
```

### Adjusting the precision of the value

In some cases, you might need the value to be rounded to specific decimal
points. Simply pass the `precision` prop and set it to the number of decimal
points.

```jsx
<NumberInput defaultValue={15} precision={2} step={0.2}>
  <NumberInputField />
  <NumberInputStepper>
    <NumberIncrementStepper />
    <NumberDecrementStepper />
  </NumberInputStepper>
</NumberInput>
```

### Clamp value when user blurs the input

In most cases, users can type custom values in the input field. If the typed
value is greater than the `max`, the value is reset to `max` when the user blur
out of the input.

To disable this behavior, pass `clampValueOnBlur` and set to `false`.

> In this example, try to type a value greater than the max. It won't reset the
> value on blur.

```jsx
<NumberInput defaultValue={15} max={30} clampValueOnBlur={false}>
  <NumberInputField />
  <NumberInputStepper>
    <NumberIncrementStepper />
    <NumberDecrementStepper />
  </NumberInputStepper>
</NumberInput>
```

### Allowing out of range values

In some scenarios, you might not want to block out of range values. Pass the
`keepWithinRange` and `clampValueOnBlur` props and set them to `false` to
support this use case.

> The NumberInput will be set `isInvalid` to `true` internally when the value is
> out of range. Out of range means that the `value` is great than `max` or less
> than `min`.

```jsx
<NumberInput
  defaultValue={15}
  max={10}
  keepWithinRange={false}
  clampValueOnBlur={false}
>
  <NumberInputField />
  <NumberInputStepper>
    <NumberIncrementStepper />
    <NumberDecrementStepper />
  </NumberInputStepper>
</NumberInput>
```

### Formatting and Parsing the value

```jsx
function Example() {
  const format = (val) => `$` + val
  const parse = (val) => val.replace(/^\$/, "")

  const [value, setValue] = React.useState("1.53")

  return (
    <NumberInput
      onChange={(valueString) => setValue(parse(valueString))}
      value={format(value)}
      max={50}
    >
      <NumberInputField />
      <NumberInputStepper>
        <NumberIncrementStepper />
        <NumberDecrementStepper />
      </NumberInputStepper>
    </NumberInput>
  )
}
```

### Changing the size of the input

Like the `Input` component, you can pass the `size` prop to change the size of
the input.

```jsx
<Stack shouldWrapChildren direction="row">
  <NumberInput size="sm" defaultValue={15} min={10}>
    <NumberInputField />
    <NumberInputStepper>
      <NumberIncrementStepper />
      <NumberDecrementStepper />
    </NumberInputStepper>
  </NumberInput>

  <NumberInput size="md" defaultValue={15} min={10}>
    <NumberInputField />
    <NumberInputStepper>
      <NumberIncrementStepper />
      <NumberDecrementStepper />
    </NumberInputStepper>
  </NumberInput>

  <NumberInput size="lg" defaultValue={15} min={10}>
    <NumberInputField />
    <NumberInputStepper>
      <NumberIncrementStepper />
      <NumberDecrementStepper />
    </NumberInputStepper>
  </NumberInput>
</Stack>
```

### Changing the styles

You can change the style of any part of the components using style props. You
can also change the icons used in the steppers.

```jsx
<NumberInput size="sm" defaultValue={15} min={10}>
  <NumberInputField focusBorderColor="red.200" />
  <NumberInputStepper>
    <NumberIncrementStepper
      bg="green.200"
      _active={{ bg: "green.300" }}
      children="+"
    />
    <NumberDecrementStepper
      bg="pink.200"
      _active={{ bg: "pink.300" }}
      children="-"
    />
  </NumberInputStepper>
</NumberInput>
```

### Combining it with a Slider

A common use case is to combine the `NumberInput` with a `Slider`. Here's an
example of how to do that:

```jsx
function SliderInput() {
  const [value, setValue] = React.useState(0)
  const handleChange = (value) => setValue(value)

  return (
    <Flex>
      <NumberInput maxW="100px" mr="2rem" value={value} onChange={handleChange}>
        <NumberInputField />
        <NumberInputStepper>
          <NumberIncrementStepper />
          <NumberDecrementStepper />
        </NumberInputStepper>
      </NumberInput>
      <Slider flex="1" value={value} onChange={handleChange}>
        <SliderTrack>
          <SliderFilledTrack />
        </SliderTrack>
        <SliderThumb fontSize="sm" boxSize="32px" children={value} />
      </Slider>
    </Flex>
  )
}
```

### Create a mobile spinner

Sometimes, you might need to create a mobile version of the number input. Here's
how you can leverage the `useNumberInput` hook to build one.

```jsx
function HookUsage() {
  const {
    getInputProps,
    getIncrementButtonProps,
    getDecrementButtonProps,
  } = useNumberInput({
    step: 0.01,
    defaultValue: 1.53,
    min: 1,
    max: 6,
    precision: 2,
  })

  const inc = getIncrementButtonProps()
  const dec = getDecrementButtonProps()
  const input = getInputProps({ isReadOnly: true })

  return (
    <HStack maxW="320px">
      <Button {...inc}>+</Button>
      <Input {...input} />
      <Button {...dec}>-</Button>
    </HStack>
  )
}
```

### Increment value using Mouse wheel

The `NumberInput` component supports the ability to increment or decrement values
using the mouse wheel events. To activate this, pass the `allowMouseWheel` prop.

```jsx
function MouseWheelExample() {
  return (
    <NumberInput allowMouseWheel>
      <NumberInputField />
      <NumberInputStepper>
        <NumberIncrementStepper />
        <NumberDecrementStepper />
      </NumberInputStepper>
    </NumberInput>
  )
}
```

## Accessibility

### Aria Roles

- The input has `role` set to `spinbutton` to denote that users are to select
  from a range of discrete values using an up and down arrows on the keyboard.
- The input has `aria-valuemin` set to the minimum value allowed for the
  spinbutton.
- The input has `aria-valuemax` set to the maximum value allowed for the
  spinbutton. attribute should be applied to the spinbutton.
- The input has `aria-valuenow` set to the current value of the `input`.
- The custom spinner (up and down buttons) has `aria-hidden` set to `true` to
  make them invisible to screen readers.

### Keyboard Navigation

- When you hit the <kbd>⬆</kbd> or <kbd>⬇</kbd> key, the input value will be
  increased or decreased by `step`.
- Holding down <kbd>Shift</kbd> and pressing <kbd>⬆</kbd> or <kbd>⬇</kbd> will
  update the value by `10 * step`.
- Holding down <kbd>Ctrl</kbd> or <kbd>⌘</kbd>, and pressing <kbd>⬆</kbd> or
  <kbd>⬆</kbd> will update the value by `0.1 * step`.
- Long pressing the up and down stepper buttons will update the value at
  intervals.

## Props

### NumberInput Props

NumberInput composes `Flex` with some additional props listed below.

<PropsTable of="NumberInput" />

### NumberInputField Props

`NumberInput` composes `Input` so you can pass all `Input` props.

### NumberInputStepper Props

`NumberInputStepper` composes `Flex` so you can pass all `Flex` props.

### NumberDecrementStepper and NumberIncrementStepper Props

`NumberDecrementStepper` and `NumberIncrementStepper` composes the `Box` props so
you can pass all `Box` props.

Commit message:

chore(eslint): add tsconfig parserOptions only for ts,tsx

website/pages/docs/form/number-input.mdx, after:

---
title: Number Input
package: "@chakra-ui/number-input"
image: "components/number-input.svg"
description:
  The NumberInput component is similar to the Input component, but it has
  controls for incrementing or decrementing numeric values.
---

The `NumberInput` component is similar to the [Input](/docs/form/input) component,
but it has controls for incrementing or decrementing numeric values.

<ComponentLinks
  github={{ url: "#" }}
  storybook={{ url: "#" }}
  npm={{ label: "@chakra-ui/number-input", url: "#" }}
/>

<carbon-ad></carbon-ad>

It follows the
[WAI-ARIA authoring practices](https://www.w3.org/TR/wai-aria-practices-1.1/#spinbutton)
for the Spinbutton widget.

## Import

Chakra UI exports 5 components for the NumberInput.

- `NumberInput`: The wrapper that provides context and logic to the components.
- `NumberInputField`: The `input` field itself.
- `NumberInputStepper`: The wrapper for the input's stepper buttons.
- `NumberIncrementStepper`: The button to increment the value of the input.
- `NumberDecrementStepper`: The button to decrement the value of the input.

```js
import {
  NumberInput,
  NumberInputField,
  NumberInputStepper,
  NumberIncrementStepper,
  NumberDecrementStepper,
} from "@chakra-ui/core"
```

## Usage

The `NumberInput` is composed of smaller components to give you control of the
styling of each part.

```jsx
<NumberInput>
  <NumberInputField />
  <NumberInputStepper>
    <NumberIncrementStepper />
    <NumberDecrementStepper />
  </NumberInputStepper>
</NumberInput>
```

### Setting a minimum and minimum value

Pass the `min` prop or `max` prop to set an upper and lower limit for the input.
By default, the input will restrict the value to stay within the specified
range.

```jsx
<NumberInput defaultValue={15} min={10} max={20}>
  <NumberInputField />
  <NumberInputStepper>
    <NumberIncrementStepper />
    <NumberDecrementStepper />
  </NumberInputStepper>
</NumberInput>
```

### Setting the step size

Pass the `step` prop to change the step size when you increment or decrement the
value. By default, the value is rounded to match the number of decimals in the
`step`.

```jsx
<NumberInput step={5} defaultValue={15} min={10} max={30}>
  <NumberInputField />
  <NumberInputStepper>
    <NumberIncrementStepper />
    <NumberDecrementStepper />
  </NumberInputStepper>
</NumberInput>
```

### Adjusting the precision of the value

In some cases, you might need the value to be rounded to specific decimal
points. Simply pass the `precision` prop and set it to the number of decimal
points.

```jsx
<NumberInput defaultValue={15} precision={2} step={0.2}>
  <NumberInputField />
  <NumberInputStepper>
    <NumberIncrementStepper />
    <NumberDecrementStepper />
  </NumberInputStepper>
</NumberInput>
```

### Clamp value when user blurs the input

In most cases, users can type custom values in the input field. If the typed
value is greater than the `max`, the value is reset to `max` when the user blur
out of the input.

To disable this behavior, pass `clampValueOnBlur` and set to `false`.

> In this example, try to type a value greater than the max. It won't reset the
> value on blur.

```jsx
<NumberInput defaultValue={15} max={30} clampValueOnBlur={false}>
  <NumberInputField />
  <NumberInputStepper>
    <NumberIncrementStepper />
    <NumberDecrementStepper />
  </NumberInputStepper>
</NumberInput>
```

### Allowing out of range values

In some scenarios, you might not want to block out of range values. Pass the
`keepWithinRange` and `clampValueOnBlur` props and set them to `false` to
support this use case.

> The NumberInput will be set `isInvalid` to `true` internally when the value is
> out of range. Out of range means that the `value` is great than `max` or less
> than `min`.

```jsx
<NumberInput
  defaultValue={15}
  max={10}
  keepWithinRange={false}
  clampValueOnBlur={false}
>
  <NumberInputField />
  <NumberInputStepper>
    <NumberIncrementStepper />
    <NumberDecrementStepper />
  </NumberInputStepper>
</NumberInput>
```

### Formatting and Parsing the value

```jsx
function Example() {
  const format = (val) => `$` + val
  const parse = (val) => val.replace(/^\$/, "")

  const [value, setValue] = React.useState("1.53")

  return (
    <NumberInput
      onChange={(valueString) => setValue(parse(valueString))}
      value={format(value)}
      max={50}
    >
      <NumberInputField />
      <NumberInputStepper>
        <NumberIncrementStepper />
        <NumberDecrementStepper />
      </NumberInputStepper>
    </NumberInput>
  )
}
```

### Changing the size of the input

Like the `Input` component, you can pass the `size` prop to change the size of
the input.

```jsx
<Stack shouldWrapChildren direction="row">
  <NumberInput size="sm" defaultValue={15} min={10}>
    <NumberInputField />
    <NumberInputStepper>
      <NumberIncrementStepper />
      <NumberDecrementStepper />
    </NumberInputStepper>
  </NumberInput>

  <NumberInput size="md" defaultValue={15} min={10}>
    <NumberInputField />
    <NumberInputStepper>
      <NumberIncrementStepper />
      <NumberDecrementStepper />
    </NumberInputStepper>
  </NumberInput>

  <NumberInput size="lg" defaultValue={15} min={10}>
    <NumberInputField />
    <NumberInputStepper>
      <NumberIncrementStepper />
      <NumberDecrementStepper />
    </NumberInputStepper>
  </NumberInput>
</Stack>
```

### Changing the styles

You can change the style of any part of the components using style props. You
can also change the icons used in the steppers.

```jsx
<NumberInput size="sm" defaultValue={15} min={10}>
  <NumberInputField focusBorderColor="red.200" />
  <NumberInputStepper>
    <NumberIncrementStepper
      bg="green.200"
      _active={{ bg: "green.300" }}
      children="+"
    />
    <NumberDecrementStepper
      bg="pink.200"
      _active={{ bg: "pink.300" }}
      children="-"
    />
  </NumberInputStepper>
</NumberInput>
```

### Combining it with a Slider

A common use case is to combine the `NumberInput` with a `Slider`. Here's an
example of how to do that:

```jsx
function SliderInput() {
  const [value, setValue] = React.useState(0)
  const handleChange = (value) => setValue(value)

  return (
    <Flex>
      <NumberInput maxW="100px" mr="2rem" value={value} onChange={handleChange}>
        <NumberInputField />
        <NumberInputStepper>
          <NumberIncrementStepper />
          <NumberDecrementStepper />
        </NumberInputStepper>
      </NumberInput>
      <Slider flex="1" value={value} onChange={handleChange}>
        <SliderTrack>
          <SliderFilledTrack />
        </SliderTrack>
        <SliderThumb fontSize="sm" boxSize="32px" children={value} />
      </Slider>
    </Flex>
  )
}
```

### Create a mobile spinner

Sometimes, you might need to create a mobile version of the number input. Here's
how you can leverage the `useNumberInput` hook to build one.

```jsx
function HookUsage() {
  const {
    getInputProps,
    getIncrementButtonProps,
    getDecrementButtonProps,
  } = useNumberInput({
    step: 0.01,
    defaultValue: 1.53,
    min: 1,
    max: 6,
    precision: 2,
  })

  const inc = getIncrementButtonProps()
  const dec = getDecrementButtonProps()
  const input = getInputProps({ isReadOnly: true })

  return (
    <HStack maxW="320px">
      <Button {...inc}>+</Button>
      <Input {...input} />
      <Button {...dec}>-</Button>
    </HStack>
  )
}
```

### Increment value using Mouse wheel

The `NumberInput` component supports the ability to increment or decrement values
using the mouse wheel events. To activate this, pass the `allowMouseWheel` prop.

```jsx
function MouseWheelExample() {
  return (
    <NumberInput allowMouseWheel>
      <NumberInputField />
      <NumberInputStepper>
        <NumberIncrementStepper />
        <NumberDecrementStepper />
      </NumberInputStepper>
    </NumberInput>
  )
}
```

## Accessibility

### Aria Roles

- The input has `role` set to `spinbutton` to denote that users are to select
  from a range of discrete values using an up and down arrows on the keyboard.
- The input has `aria-valuemin` set to the minimum value allowed for the
  spinbutton.
- The input has `aria-valuemax` set to the maximum value allowed for the
  spinbutton. attribute should be applied to the spinbutton.
- The input has `aria-valuenow` set to the current value of the `input`.
- The custom spinner (up and down buttons) has `aria-hidden` set to `true` to
  make them invisible to screen readers.

### Keyboard Navigation

- When you hit the <kbd>⬆</kbd> or <kbd>⬇</kbd> key, the input value will be
  increased or decreased by `step`.
- Holding down <kbd>Shift</kbd> and pressing <kbd>⬆</kbd> or <kbd>⬇</kbd> will
  update the value by `10 * step`.
- Holding down <kbd>Ctrl</kbd> or <kbd>⌘</kbd>, and pressing <kbd>⬆</kbd> or
  <kbd>⬆</kbd> will update the value by `0.1 * step`.
- Long pressing the up and down stepper buttons will update the value at
  intervals.

## Props

### NumberInput Props

NumberInput composes `Flex` with some additional props listed below.

| Name                 | Type                        | Default     | Description                                                                                                         |
| -------------------- | --------------------------- | ----------- | ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| `value`              | `number`                    |             | The value of the input for controlled usage. Should be less than `max` and greater than `min`.                       |
| `defaultValue`       | `number`                    |             | The initial value of the input. Should be less than `max` and greater than `min`.                                    |
| `onChange`           | `(value: number) => void`   |             | The callback fired when the value changes.                                                                          |
| `min`                | `number`                    | `-Infinity` | The maximum value of the input.                                                                                      |
| `max`                | `number`                    | `Infinity`  | The minimum value of the input.                                                                                      |
| `step`               | `number`                    | `1`         | The step used to increment or decrement the value.                                                                   |
| `precision`          | `number`                    |             | The number of decimal points used to round the value.                                                               |
| `isReadOnly`         | `boolean`                   |             | If `true`, the input will be in readonly mode.                                                                       |
| `isInvalid`          | `boolean`                   |             | If `true`, the input will have `aria-invalid` set to `true`.                                                         |
| `isDisabled`         | `boolean`                   |             | If `true`, the input will be disabled.                                                                               |
| `keepWithinRange`    | `boolean`                   | `true`      | If `true` and you use the stepper or up/down arrow keys, the value will not exceed the `max` or go lower than `min. |
| `allowMouseWheel`    | `boolean`                   |             | If `true`, the input's value will change based on mouse wheel.                                                       |
| `clampValueOnBlur`   | `boolean`                   | `true`      | If `true` and the value is greater than `max`, the value will be reset to `max`.                                     |
| `focusInputOnChange` | `boolean`                   | `true`      | If `true`, the input will be focused as you increment or decrement the value with the stepper.                      |
| `getAriaValueText`   | `(value: number) => string` | `true`      | It is used to set the `aria-valuetext` property of the input.                                                        |

### NumberInputField Props

`NumberInput` composes `Input` so you can pass all `Input` props.

### NumberInputStepper Props

`NumberInputStepper` composes `Flex` so you can pass all `Flex` props.

### NumberDecrementStepper and NumberIncrementStepper Props

`NumberDecrementStepper` and `NumberIncrementStepper` composes the `Box` props so
you can pass all `Box` props.
