website/pages/docs/form/select.mdx, before:

---
title: Select
package: "@chakra-ui/select"
image: "components/select.svg"
description:
  Select component is a component that allows users pick a value from predefined
  options.
---

`Select` component is a component that allows users pick a value from predefined
options. Ideally, it should be used when there are more than 5 options,
otherwise you might consider using a radio group instead.

<carbon-ad></carbon-ad>

## Import

```js
import { Select } from "@chakra-ui/core"
```

## Usage

Here's a basic usage of the `Select` component.

```jsx
<Select placeholder="Select option">
  <option value="option1">Option 1</option>
  <option value="option2">Option 2</option>
  <option value="option3">Option 3</option>
</Select>
```

### Changing the size of the Select

The`Select` component cones in three sizes : large (48px), default (40px) and small (32px).

```jsx
<Stack spacing={3}>
  <Select placeholder="large size" size="lg" />
  <Select placeholder="default size" size="md" />
  <Select placeholder="small size" size="sm" />
</Stack>
```

### Changing the appearance of the Select

Just like the input component, `Select` comes in 3 variants, `outline`, `unstyled`
, `flushed` , and `filled`. Pass the `variant` prop and set it to either of
these values.

```jsx
<Stack spacing={3}>
  <Select variant="outline" placeholder="Outline" />
  <Select variant="filled" placeholder="Filled" />
  <Select variant="flushed" placeholder="Flushed" />
  <Select variant="unstyled" placeholder="Unstyled" />
</Stack>
```

### Changing the icon in the Select

As with most Chakra components, you can change the arrow icon used in the
select. Simply pass the `icon` prop.

In case the custom icon size doesn't look right, you can pass the `iconSize`
prop to change it.

```jsx live=true
<Select icon={<MdArrowDropDown />} placeholder="Woohoo! A new icon" />
```

### Overriding the styles of the Select

Even though the select comes with predefined styles, you can override pretty
much any property. Here we'll override the background color.

```jsx
<Select
  bg="tomato"
  borderColor="tomato"
  color="white"
  placeholder="Woohoo! A new background color!"
/>
```

## Props

The Select component composes [Box](/docs/layout/box) so you can pass all `Box`
props, and native `Select` props in addition to these:

<PropsTable of="Select" />

Commit message:

chore(eslint): add tsconfig parserOptions only for ts,tsx

website/pages/docs/form/select.mdx, after:

---
title: Select
package: "@chakra-ui/select"
image: "components/select.svg"
description:
  Select component is a component that allows users pick a value from predefined
  options.
---

`Select` component is a component that allows users pick a value from predefined
options. Ideally, it should be used when there are more than 5 options,
otherwise you might consider using a radio group instead.

<carbon-ad></carbon-ad>

## Import

```js
import { Select } from "@chakra-ui/core"
```

## Usage

Here's a basic usage of the `Select` component.

```jsx
<Select placeholder="Select option">
  <option value="option1">Option 1</option>
  <option value="option2">Option 2</option>
  <option value="option3">Option 3</option>
</Select>
```

### Changing the size of the Select

The`Select` component cones in three sizes : large (48px), default (40px) and small (32px).

```jsx
<Stack spacing={3}>
  <Select placeholder="large size" size="lg" />
  <Select placeholder="default size" size="md" />
  <Select placeholder="small size" size="sm" />
</Stack>
```

### Changing the appearance of the Select

Just like the input component, `Select` comes in 3 variants, `outline`, `unstyled`
, `flushed` , and `filled`. Pass the `variant` prop and set it to either of
these values.

```jsx
<Stack spacing={3}>
  <Select variant="outline" placeholder="Outline" />
  <Select variant="filled" placeholder="Filled" />
  <Select variant="flushed" placeholder="Flushed" />
  <Select variant="unstyled" placeholder="Unstyled" />
</Stack>
```

### Changing the icon in the Select

As with most Chakra components, you can change the arrow icon used in the
select. Simply pass the `icon` prop.

In case the custom icon size doesn't look right, you can pass the `iconSize`
prop to change it.

```jsx live=true
<Select icon={<MdArrowDropDown />} placeholder="Woohoo! A new icon" />
```

### Overriding the styles of the Select

Even though the select comes with predefined styles, you can override pretty
much any property. Here we'll override the background color.

```jsx
<Select
  bg="tomato"
  borderColor="tomato"
  color="white"
  placeholder="Woohoo! A new background color!"
/>
```

## Props

The Select component composes [Box](/docs/layout/box) so you can pass all `Box`
props, and native `Select` props in addition to these:

| Name               | Type                                       | Default          | Description                                                                                                                                                            |
| ------------------ | ------------------------------------------ | ---------------- | ---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| `size`             | `sm`, `md`, `lg`                           | `md`             | The visual size of the `select` element.                                                                                                                               |
| `icon`             | `React.ReactElement`, `string`             | `<ChevronDown/>` | The icon to use in place of the `chevron-down`.                                                                                                                         |
| `iconSize`         | `BoxProps['size']`                         | `20px`           | The visual size of the default icon.                                                                                                                                    |
| `iconColor`        | `BoxProps['color']`                        |                  | The color of the default icon.                                                                                                                                          |
| `variant`          | `outline`, `unstyled`, `flushed`, `filled` | `outline`        | The variant of the select style to use.                                                                                                                                |
| `focusBorderColor` | `string`                                   |                  | The border color when the select is focused.                                                                                                                           |
| `errorBorderColor` | `string`                                   |                  | The border color when `isInvalid` is set to `true`.                                                                                                                    |
| `isDisabled`       | `boolean`                                  | `false`          | If `true`, the select will be disabled. This sets `aria-disabled=true` and you can style this state by passing `_disabled` prop.                                       |
| `isInvalid`        | `boolean`                                  | `false`          | If `true`, the `select` will indicate an error. This sets `aria-invalid=true` and you can style this state by passing `_invalid` prop.                                 |
| `isRequired`       | `boolean`                                  | `false`          | If `true`, the select element will be required.                                                                                                                        |
| `isReadOnly`       | `boolean`                                  | `false`          | If `true`, prevents the value of the select from being edited.                                                                                                         |
| `rootProps`        | `BoxProps`                                 |                  | The props to pass to the wrapper of the select. The select is wrapped in a `Box` to help align the icon, if you want to pass some props to that wrapper, use this prop. |
