website/pages/docs/form/slider.mdx, before:

---
title: Slider
package: "@chakra-ui/slider"
image: "components/slider.svg"
---

import ComponentLinks from "../../../src/components/component-links"

The Slider is used to allow users to make selections from a range of values.

<ComponentLinks
  github={{ url: "#" }}
  storybook={{ url: "#" }}
  npm={{ label: "@chakra-ui/slider", url: "#" }}
/>

<carbon-ad></carbon-ad>

Sliders reflect a range of values along a bar, from which users may select a
single value. They are ideal for adjusting settings such as volume, brightness,
or applying image filters.

## Import

Chakra UI export 4 components for Slider:

- **Slider**: The wrapper that provides context and functionality for all
  children.
- **SliderTrack**: The empty part of the slider that shows the track.
- **SliderFilledTrack**: The filled part of the slider.
- **SliderThumb**: The handle that's used to change the slider value.

```js
import {
  Slider,
  SliderTrack,
  SliderFilledTrack,
  SliderThumb,
} from "@chakra-ui/core"
```

## Usage

```jsx
<Slider defaultValue={30}>
  <SliderTrack>
    <SliderFilledTrack />
  </SliderTrack>
  <SliderThumb />
</Slider>
```

### Changing the slider color

```jsx
<Slider colorScheme="pink" defaultValue={30}>
  <SliderTrack>
    <SliderFilledTrack />
  </SliderTrack>
  <SliderThumb />
</Slider>
```

### Customized Sliders

Slider component was designed to be composed to make it easy for you to
customize its styles.

```jsx
<Slider defaultValue={30}>
  <SliderTrack bg="red.100">
    <SliderFilledTrack bg="tomato" />
  </SliderTrack>
  <SliderThumb boxSize={6}>
    <Box color="tomato" as={MdGraphicEq} />
  </SliderThumb>
</Slider>
```

## Props

### Slider Props

The `Slider` component wraps all it's children in the [Box](/box) component, so
you can pass all `Box` props to change it's style.

| Name               | Type                                               | Default | Description                                                               |
| ------------------ | -------------------------------------------------- | ------- | ------------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| `value`            | `number`                                           |         | The value of the slider.                                                  |
| `defaultValue`     | `number`                                           |         | The initial value of the slider.                                          |
| `max`              | `number`                                           |         | Standard `input` max attribute.                                           |
| `min`              | `number`                                           |         | Standard `input` min attribute.                                           |
| `step`             | `number`                                           |         | Standard `input` step attribute.                                          |
| `onChange`         | `(value: number): void`                            |         | Callback fired when the value of the slider changes.                      |
| `onFocus`          | `React.FocusEventHander`                           |         | Callback fired when the thumb receives focus                              |
| `onBlur`           | `React.FocusEventHander`                           |         | Callback fired when the thumb is blurred                                  |
| `onMouseDown`      | `React.MouseEventHander | React.TouchEventHandler` |         | Callback fired when the you mousedown on any part of the slider           |
| `aria-label`       | `string`                                           |         | The accessible label.                                                     |
| `aria-labelledby`  | `string`                                           |         | The `id` of the element that labels the sliders                           |
| `aria-valuetext`   | `string`                                           |         | The aria-valuetext of the switch for accessibility.                       |
| `orientation`      | `string`                                           |         | The orientation of the slider, only `horizontal` is supported for now.    |
| `getAriaValueText` | `(value: number ): string`                         |         | The callback to format the `aria-valuetext`.                              |
| `size`             | `sm`, `md`, `lg`                                   |         | The size of the slider.                                                   |
| `colorScheme`      | `string`                                           |         | The color scheme to use for the slider. Use a color key in `theme.colors` |
| `name`             | `string`                                           |         | The name of the slider component when used in a form.                     |
| `id`               | `string`                                           |         | The id of the slider component when used in a form.                       |
| `children`         | `React.ReactNode`                                  |         | The children of the slider.                                               |

### SliderThumb Props

SliderThumb composes [Box](/docs/layout/box) so you can pass all Box props to
change it's style.

### SliderFilledTrack Props

SliderFilledTrack composes [Box](/docs/layout/box) so you can pass all Box props
to change it's style.

### SliderTrack Props

SliderTrack composes [Box](/docs/layout/box) so you can pass all Box props to
change it's style.

Commit message:

docs: mass updates to component docs

website/pages/docs/form/slider.mdx, after:

---
title: Slider
package: "@chakra-ui/slider"
image: "components/slider.svg"
---

import ComponentLinks from "../../../src/components/component-links"

The Slider is used to allow users to make selections from a range of values.

<ComponentLinks
  github={{ url: "#" }}
  storybook={{ url: "#" }}
  npm={{ label: "@chakra-ui/slider", url: "#" }}
/>

<carbon-ad></carbon-ad>

Sliders reflect a range of values along a bar, from which users may select a
single value. They are ideal for adjusting settings such as volume, brightness,
or applying image filters.

## Import

Chakra UI export 4 components for Slider:

- **Slider**: The wrapper that provides context and functionality for all
  children.
- **SliderTrack**: The empty part of the slider that shows the track.
- **SliderFilledTrack**: The filled part of the slider.
- **SliderThumb**: The handle that's used to change the slider value.

```js
import {
  Slider,
  SliderTrack,
  SliderFilledTrack,
  SliderThumb,
} from "@chakra-ui/core"
```

## Usage

```jsx
<Slider defaultValue={30}>
  <SliderTrack>
    <SliderFilledTrack />
  </SliderTrack>
  <SliderThumb />
</Slider>
```

### Changing the slider color

```jsx
<Slider colorScheme="pink" defaultValue={30}>
  <SliderTrack>
    <SliderFilledTrack />
  </SliderTrack>
  <SliderThumb />
</Slider>
```

### Customized Sliders

Slider component was designed to be composed to make it easy for you to
customize its styles.

```jsx
<Slider defaultValue={30}>
  <SliderTrack bg="red.100">
    <SliderFilledTrack bg="tomato" />
  </SliderTrack>
  <SliderThumb boxSize={6}>
    <Box color="tomato" as={MdGraphicEq} />
  </SliderThumb>
</Slider>
```

### Getting value after slide in done

Added support for the `onChangeEnd` prop. Dragging the slider can trigger lots
of updates and user might only be interested in the final result after sliding
is complete.

```jsx live=false
<Slider onChangeEnd={(val) => console.log(val)}>
  <SliderTrack>
    <SliderFilledTrack />
  </SliderTrack>
  <SliderThumb />
</Slider>
```

### useSlider

We've exported the `useSlider` hook to help users manage and build custom slider
UIs.

## Props

### Slider Props

The `Slider` component wraps all it's children in the [Box](/box) component, so
you can pass all `Box` props to change it's style.

| Name               | Type                                               | Default | Description                                                               |
| ------------------ | -------------------------------------------------- | ------- | ------------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| `value`            | `number`                                           |         | The value of the slider.                                                  |
| `defaultValue`     | `number`                                           |         | The initial value of the slider.                                          |
| `max`              | `number`                                           |         | Standard `input` max attribute.                                           |
| `min`              | `number`                                           |         | Standard `input` min attribute.                                           |
| `step`             | `number`                                           |         | Standard `input` step attribute.                                          |
| `onChange`         | `(value: number): void`                            |         | Callback fired when the value of the slider changes.                      |
| `onChangeEnd`      | `(value: number): void`                            |         | Callback fired when the slider changes is done.                           |
| `isReadOnly`       | `boolean`                                          |         | If `true`, the slider will be in read-only mode.                          |
| `onFocus`          | `React.FocusEventHander`                           |         | Callback fired when the thumb receives focus                              |
| `onBlur`           | `React.FocusEventHander`                           |         | Callback fired when the thumb is blurred                                  |
| `onMouseDown`      | `React.MouseEventHander | React.TouchEventHandler` |         | Callback fired when the you mousedown on any part of the slider           |
| `aria-label`       | `string`                                           |         | The accessible label.                                                     |
| `aria-labelledby`  | `string`                                           |         | The `id` of the element that labels the sliders                           |
| `aria-valuetext`   | `string`                                           |         | The aria-valuetext of the switch for accessibility.                       |
| `orientation`      | `string`                                           |         | The orientation of the slider, only `horizontal` is supported for now.    |
| `getAriaValueText` | `(value: number ): string`                         |         | The callback to format the `aria-valuetext`.                              |
| `size`             | `sm`, `md`, `lg`                                   |         | The size of the slider.                                                   |
| `colorScheme`      | `string`                                           |         | The color scheme to use for the slider. Use a color key in `theme.colors` |
| `name`             | `string`                                           |         | The name of the slider component when used in a form.                     |
| `id`               | `string`                                           |         | The id of the slider component when used in a form.                       |
| `children`         | `React.ReactNode`                                  |         | The children of the slider.                                               |
| `isReversed`       | `boolean`                                          |         | If `true`, it'll reverse the direction and functionality of the slider    |

### SliderThumb Props

SliderThumb composes [Box](/docs/layout/box) so you can pass all Box props to
change it's style.

### SliderFilledTrack Props

SliderFilledTrack composes [Box](/docs/layout/box) so you can pass all Box props
to change it's style.

### SliderTrack Props

SliderTrack composes [Box](/docs/layout/box) so you can pass all Box props to
change it's style.
