docs/pages/components/avatar.mdx, before:

---
title: Avatar
package: "@chakra-ui/avatar"
image: "components/avatar.svg"
description:
  The Avatar component is used to represent user, and displays the profile
  picture, initials or fallback icon.
---

import ComponentLinks from "../../src/components/component-links"

# Avatar

The Avatar component is used to represent a user, and displays the profile
picture, initials or fallback icon.

<ComponentLinks
  github={{ url: "#" }}
  storybook={{ url: "#" }}
  npm={{ label: "@chakra-ui/avatar", url: "#" }}
/>

<carbon-ad></carbon-ad>

## Import

Chakra UI exports 3 avatar-related components:

- `Avatar`: The image that represents the user.
- `AvatarBadge`: A wrapper that displays its content on the right corner of the
  avatar.
- `AvatarGroup`: A wrapper to stack multiple Avatars together.

```js
import { Avatar, AvatarBadge } from "@chakra-ui/core"
```

## Usage

```jsx
<Stack direction="row">
  <Avatar name="Dan Abrahmov" src="https://bit.ly/dan-abramov" />
  <Avatar name="Kola Tioluwani" src="https://bit.ly/tioluwani-kolawole" />
  <Avatar name="Kent Dodds" src="https://bit.ly/kent-c-dodds" />
  <Avatar name="Ryan Florence" src="https://bit.ly/ryan-florence" />
  <Avatar name="Prosper Otemuyiwa" src="https://bit.ly/prosper-baba" />
  <Avatar name="Christian Nwamba" src="https://bit.ly/code-beast" />
  <Avatar name="Segun Adebayo" src="https://bit.ly/sage-adebayo" />
</Stack>
```

## Avatar Sizes

The `Avatar` component comes in 7 sizes.

```jsx
<Stack direction="row">
  <Avatar size="2xs" name="Dan Abrahmov" src="https://bit.ly/dan-abramov" />
  <Avatar
    size="xs"
    name="Kola Tioluwani"
    src="https://bit.ly/tioluwani-kolawole"
  />
  <Avatar size="sm" name="Kent Dodds" src="https://bit.ly/kent-c-dodds" />
  <Avatar size="md" name="Ryan Florence" src="https://bit.ly/ryan-florence" />
  <Avatar
    size="lg"
    name="Prosper Otemuyiwa"
    src="https://bit.ly/prosper-baba"
  />
  <Avatar size="xl" name="Christian Nwamba" src="https://bit.ly/code-beast" />
  <Avatar size="2xl" name="Segun Adebayo" src="https://bit.ly/sage-adebayo" />
</Stack>
```

## Avatar Fallbacks

If there was an error loading the `src` of the avatar, there are 2 fallbacks:

- If there's a `name` prop, we use it to generate the initials and a random,
  accessible background color.
- If there's no `name` prop, we use a default avatar.

```jsx
<Stack direction="row">
  <Avatar name="Oshigaki Kisame" src="https://bit.ly/broken-link" />
  <Avatar name="Sasuke Uchiha" src="https://bit.ly/broken-link" />
  <Avatar src="https://bit.ly/broken-link" />
</Stack>
```

## Avatar with badge

In some products, you might need to show a badge on the right corner of the
avatar, which we call a **badge**. Here's an example that shows if the user is
online:

```jsx
<Stack direction="row" spacing={4}>
  <Avatar>
    <AvatarBadge boxSize="1.25em" bg="green.500" />
  </Avatar>

  {/* You can also change the borderColor and bg of the badge */}
  <Avatar>
    <AvatarBadge borderColor="papayawhip" bg="tomato" boxSize="1.25em" />
  </Avatar>
</Stack>
```

> Note the use of `em` for the size of the `AvatarBadge`. This is useful to size
> the badge relative to the avatar font size.

## AvatarGroup

In some cases, you might need to stack avatars as a group. Use the `AvatarGroup`
component.

- To limit the amount of avatars to show, use the `max` prop. It'll truncate the
  avatars and show a "+X" label (where X is the remaining avatars).
- To size all the avatars equally, pass the `size` prop.
- To adjust the spacing between the avatars, pass the `spacing` prop.

```jsx
<AvatarGroup size="md" max={2}>
  <Avatar name="Ryan Florence" src="https://bit.ly/ryan-florence" />
  <Avatar name="Segun Adebayo" src="https://bit.ly/sage-adebayo" />
  <Avatar name="Kent Dodds" src="https://bit.ly/kent-c-dodds" />
  <Avatar name="Prosper Otemuyiwa" src="https://bit.ly/prosper-baba" />
  <Avatar name="Christian Nwamba" src="https://bit.ly/code-beast" />
</AvatarGroup>
```

## Props

The Avatar component composes `Box` component so you can pass props for `Box`.

| Name       | Type                                       | Default | Description                                                                       |
| ---------- | ------------------------------------------ | ------- | --------------------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| size       | `2xs`, `xs`, `sm`, `md`, `lg`, `xl`, `2xl` | `md`    | The size of the avatar                                                            |
| showBorder | `boolean`                                  | `false` | If `true`, the `Avatar` will show a border around it. Best for a group of avatars |
| name       | `string`                                   |         | The name of the user in the avatar                                                |
| src        | `string`                                   |         | The image url of the `Avatar`                                                     |
| children   | `React.ReactNode`                          |         | The badge at the bottom right corner of the Avatar.                               |

Commit message:

docs: update guide ui and frontmatter

docs/pages/components/avatar.mdx, after:

---
title: Avatar
package: "@chakra-ui/avatar"
image: "components/avatar.svg"
description:
  The Avatar component is used to represent user, and displays the profile
  picture, initials or fallback icon.
---

import ComponentLinks from "../../src/components/component-links"

# Avatar

The Avatar component is used to represent a user, and displays the profile
picture, initials or fallback icon.

<ComponentLinks
  github={{ url: "#" }}
  storybook={{ url: "#" }}
  npm={{ label: "@chakra-ui/avatar", url: "#" }}
/>

<carbon-ad></carbon-ad>

## Import

Chakra UI exports 3 avatar-related components:

- `Avatar`: The image that represents the user.
- `AvatarBadge`: A wrapper that displays its content on the right corner of the
  avatar.
- `AvatarGroup`: A wrapper to stack multiple Avatars together.

```js
import { Avatar, AvatarBadge } from "@chakra-ui/core"
```

## Usage

```jsx
<Stack direction="row">
  <Avatar name="Dan Abrahmov" src="https://bit.ly/dan-abramov" />
  <Avatar name="Kola Tioluwani" src="https://bit.ly/tioluwani-kolawole" />
  <Avatar name="Kent Dodds" src="https://bit.ly/kent-c-dodds" />
  <Avatar name="Ryan Florence" src="https://bit.ly/ryan-florence" />
  <Avatar name="Prosper Otemuyiwa" src="https://bit.ly/prosper-baba" />
  <Avatar name="Christian Nwamba" src="https://bit.ly/code-beast" />
  <Avatar name="Segun Adebayo" src="https://bit.ly/sage-adebayo" />
</Stack>
```

### Avatar Sizes

The `Avatar` component comes in 7 sizes.

```jsx
<Stack direction="row">
  <Avatar size="2xs" name="Dan Abrahmov" src="https://bit.ly/dan-abramov" />
  <Avatar
    size="xs"
    name="Kola Tioluwani"
    src="https://bit.ly/tioluwani-kolawole"
  />
  <Avatar size="sm" name="Kent Dodds" src="https://bit.ly/kent-c-dodds" />
  <Avatar size="md" name="Ryan Florence" src="https://bit.ly/ryan-florence" />
  <Avatar
    size="lg"
    name="Prosper Otemuyiwa"
    src="https://bit.ly/prosper-baba"
  />
  <Avatar size="xl" name="Christian Nwamba" src="https://bit.ly/code-beast" />
  <Avatar size="2xl" name="Segun Adebayo" src="https://bit.ly/sage-adebayo" />
</Stack>
```

### Avatar Fallbacks

If there was an error loading the `src` of the avatar, there are 2 fallbacks:

- If there's a `name` prop, we use it to generate the initials and a random,
  accessible background color.
- If there's no `name` prop, we use a default avatar.

```jsx
<Stack direction="row">
  <Avatar name="Oshigaki Kisame" src="https://bit.ly/broken-link" />
  <Avatar name="Sasuke Uchiha" src="https://bit.ly/broken-link" />
  <Avatar src="https://bit.ly/broken-link" />
</Stack>
```

### Customize the fallback avatar

You can customize the background color and icon of the fallback avatar icon to
match your design requirements.

- To update the background, pass the usual `bg` prop
- To update the icon svg, pass the `icon` prop

```jsx
<AvatarGroup spacing="1rem">
  <Avatar bg="red.500" icon={<AiOutlineUser fontSize="1.5rem" />} />
  <Avatar bg="teal.500" />
</AvatarGroup>
```

### Avatar with badge

In some products, you might need to show a badge on the right corner of the
avatar, which we call a **badge**. Here's an example that shows if the user is
online:

```jsx
<Stack direction="row" spacing={4}>
  <Avatar>
    <AvatarBadge boxSize="1.25em" bg="green.500" />
  </Avatar>

  {/* You can also change the borderColor and bg of the badge */}
  <Avatar>
    <AvatarBadge borderColor="papayawhip" bg="tomato" boxSize="1.25em" />
  </Avatar>
</Stack>
```

> Note the use of `em` for the size of the `AvatarBadge`. This is useful to size
> the badge relative to the avatar font size.

### AvatarGroup

In some cases, you might need to stack avatars as a group. Use the `AvatarGroup`
component.

- To limit the amount of avatars to show, use the `max` prop. It'll truncate the
  avatars and show a "+X" label (where X is the remaining avatars).
- To size all the avatars equally, pass the `size` prop.
- To adjust the spacing between the avatars, pass the `spacing` prop.

```jsx
<AvatarGroup size="md" max={2}>
  <Avatar name="Ryan Florence" src="https://bit.ly/ryan-florence" />
  <Avatar name="Segun Adebayo" src="https://bit.ly/sage-adebayo" />
  <Avatar name="Kent Dodds" src="https://bit.ly/kent-c-dodds" />
  <Avatar name="Prosper Otemuyiwa" src="https://bit.ly/prosper-baba" />
  <Avatar name="Christian Nwamba" src="https://bit.ly/code-beast" />
</AvatarGroup>
```

## Props

The Avatar component composes `Box` component so you can pass props for `Box`.

| Name       | Type                                       | Default | Description                                                                       |
| ---------- | ------------------------------------------ | ------- | --------------------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| size       | `2xs`, `xs`, `sm`, `md`, `lg`, `xl`, `2xl` | `md`    | The size of the avatar                                                            |
| showBorder | `boolean`                                  | `false` | If `true`, the `Avatar` will show a border around it. Best for a group of avatars |
| name       | `string`                                   |         | The name of the user in the avatar                                                |
| src        | `string`                                   |         | The image url of the `Avatar`                                                     |
| icon       | `React.ReactElement`                       |         | The icon to use for the fallback avatar                                           |
| children   | `React.ReactNode`                          |         | The badge at the bottom right corner of the Avatar.                               |
