docs/pages/components/button.mdx, before:

---
title: Button
package: "@chakra-ui/button"
image: "components/button.svg"
description:
  Button component is used to trigger an action or event, such as submitting a
  form, opening a Dialog, canceling an action, or performing a delete operation.
---

# Button

Button component is used to trigger an action or event, such as submitting a
form, opening a [Dialog](/modal), canceling an action, or performing a delete
operation.

## Import

```js
import { Button } from "@chakra-ui/core"
```

## Usage

```jsx
<Button colorScheme="green">Button</Button>
```

### Button Sizes

Use the `size` prop to change the size of the button. You can set the value to
`xs`, `sm`, `md`, or `lg`.

```jsx
<Stack spacing={4} direction="row" align="center">
  <Button colorScheme="teal" size="xs">
    Button
  </Button>
  <Button colorScheme="teal" size="sm">
    Button
  </Button>
  <Button colorScheme="teal" size="md">
    Button
  </Button>
  <Button colorScheme="teal" size="lg">
    Button
  </Button>
</Stack>
```

### Button Variant

Use the `variant` prop to change the visual style of the Button. You can set the
value to `solid`, `ghost`, `outline`, or `link`.

```jsx
<Stack direction="row" spacing={4} align="center">
  <Button colorScheme="teal" variant="solid">
    Button
  </Button>
  <Button colorScheme="teal" variant="outline">
    Button
  </Button>
  <Button colorScheme="teal" variant="ghost">
    Button
  </Button>
  <Button colorScheme="teal" variant="link">
    Button
  </Button>
</Stack>
```

### Button with Icon

You can add left and right icons to the Button components.
[See how to add icons](/icon) to your project

```jsx
<Stack direction="row" spacing={4}>
  <Button leftIcon={<EmailIcon />} colorScheme="teal" variant="solid">
    Email
  </Button>
  <Button rightIcon={<ArrowForwardIcon />} colorScheme="teal" variant="outline">
    Call us
  </Button>
</Stack>
```

You can also use icons from popular libraries like
[react-icons](https://react-icons.netlify.com) and just pass it into the button.

```jsx
// -> import {MdBuild , MdCall} from "react-icons/md"

<Stack direction="row" spacing={4}>
  <Button leftIcon={<MdBuild />} colorScheme="pink" variant="solid">
    Settings
  </Button>
  <Button rightIcon={<MdCall />} colorScheme="blue" variant="outline">
    Call us
  </Button>
</Stack>
```

### Button loading state

Pass `isLoading` prop to the Button component to show it's loading state. You
can optionally pass `loadingText` prop, if you do, the button will show a
spinner and the loading text. Otherwise, the button will take the width of the
text label and show only the spinner

```jsx
<Stack direction="row" spacing={4}>
  <Button isLoading colorScheme="teal" variant="solid">
    Email
  </Button>
  <Button
    isLoading
    loadingText="Submitting"
    colorScheme="teal"
    variant="outline"
  >
    Submit
  </Button>
</Stack>
```

## Accessibility

- Button has `role` button.
- When Button has focus, <kbd>Space</kbd> and <kbd>Enter</kbd> activates it.

## Composition

Button composes [PseudoBox](/pseudobox) and all props you pass (variant,
colorScheme, etc.) are converted to style props. This means you can override any
style of the Button via props.

```jsx
// The size prop affects the height of the button
// but I can still override it by passing a custom height
<Button
  size="md"
  height="48px"
  width="200px"
  border="2px"
  borderColor="green.500"
>
  Button
</Button>
```

---

## Custom Button

In event you need to make your own custom button, you can leverage the
`PseudoBox` component. It provides the `hover`, `focus`, `active` and `disabled`
style props to style the button.

```jsx
// Button from facebook.com
<Box
  as="button"
  height="24px"
  lineHeight="1.2"
  transition="all 0.2s cubic-bezier(.08,.52,.52,1)"
  border="1px"
  px="8px"
  borderRadius="2px"
  fontSize="14px"
  fontWeight="semibold"
  bg="#f5f6f7"
  borderColor="#ccd0d5"
  color="#4b4f56"
  _hover={{ bg: "#ebedf0" }}
  _active={{
    bg: "#dddfe2",
    transform: "scale(0.98)",
    borderColor: "#bec3c9",
  }}
  _focus={{
    boxShadow:
      "0 0 1px 2px rgba(88, 144, 255, .75), 0 1px 1px rgba(0, 0, 0, .15)",
  }}
>
  Join Group
</Box>
```

## Props

The Button composes the `Box` component so you can pass props for `Box`. These
are props related to the Button component.

| Name          | Type                                              | Default | Description                                                                                               |
| ------------- | ------------------------------------------------- | ------- | --------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| `aria-label`  | `string`                                          |         | The label of the button                                                                                   |
| `colorScheme` | `string`                                          |         | The color of the button. Use the colors passed in `theme.colors`.                                         |
| `variant`     | `outline`, `ghost`, `unstyled` , `link` , `solid` | `solid` | The variant of the button style to use.                                                                   |
| `isDisabled`  | `boolean`                                         |         | If `true`, the button will be disabled.                                                                   |
| `isLoading`   | `boolean`                                         |         | If `true`, the button will show a spinner.                                                                |
| `loadingText` | `string`                                          |         | The label to show in the button when `isLoading` is true. If no text is passed, it only shows the spinner |
| `size`        | `sm`, `md`, `lg`                                  | `md`    | The size of the button.                                                                                   |

Commit message:

docs: update component links and fix issues

docs/pages/components/button.mdx, after:

---
title: Button
package: "@chakra-ui/button"
image: "components/button.svg"
description:
  Button component is used to trigger an action or event, such as submitting a
  form, opening a Dialog, canceling an action, or performing a delete operation.
---

import ComponentLinks from "../../src/components/component-links"

# Button

Button component is used to trigger an action or event, such as submitting a
form, opening a dialog, canceling an action, or performing a delete operation.

<ComponentLinks
  github={{ url: "#" }}
  storybook={{ url: "#" }}
  npm={{ label: "@chakra-ui/button", url: "#" }}
/>

<carbon-ad></carbon-ad>

## Import

```js
import { Button } from "@chakra-ui/core"
```

## Usage

```jsx
<Button colorScheme="green">Button</Button>
```

### Button Sizes

Use the `size` prop to change the size of the button. You can set the value to
`xs`, `sm`, `md`, or `lg`.

```jsx
<Stack spacing={4} direction="row" align="center">
  <Button colorScheme="teal" size="xs">
    Button
  </Button>
  <Button colorScheme="teal" size="sm">
    Button
  </Button>
  <Button colorScheme="teal" size="md">
    Button
  </Button>
  <Button colorScheme="teal" size="lg">
    Button
  </Button>
</Stack>
```

### Button Variant

Use the `variant` prop to change the visual style of the Button. You can set the
value to `solid`, `ghost`, `outline`, or `link`.

```jsx
<Stack direction="row" spacing={4} align="center">
  <Button colorScheme="teal" variant="solid">
    Button
  </Button>
  <Button colorScheme="teal" variant="outline">
    Button
  </Button>
  <Button colorScheme="teal" variant="ghost">
    Button
  </Button>
  <Button colorScheme="teal" variant="link">
    Button
  </Button>
</Stack>
```

### Button with Icon

You can add left and right icons to the Button components.
[See how to add icons](/icon) to your project

```jsx
<Stack direction="row" spacing={4}>
  <Button leftIcon={<EmailIcon />} colorScheme="teal" variant="solid">
    Email
  </Button>
  <Button rightIcon={<ArrowForwardIcon />} colorScheme="teal" variant="outline">
    Call us
  </Button>
</Stack>
```

You can also use icons from popular libraries like
[react-icons](https://react-icons.netlify.com) and just pass it into the button.

```jsx
// -> import {MdBuild , MdCall} from "react-icons/md"

<Stack direction="row" spacing={4}>
  <Button leftIcon={<MdBuild />} colorScheme="pink" variant="solid">
    Settings
  </Button>
  <Button rightIcon={<MdCall />} colorScheme="blue" variant="outline">
    Call us
  </Button>
</Stack>
```

### Button loading state

Pass `isLoading` prop to the Button component to show it's loading state. You
can optionally pass `loadingText` prop, if you do, the button will show a
spinner and the loading text. Otherwise, the button will take the width of the
text label and show only the spinner

```jsx
<Stack direction="row" spacing={4}>
  <Button isLoading colorScheme="teal" variant="solid">
    Email
  </Button>
  <Button
    isLoading
    loadingText="Submitting"
    colorScheme="teal"
    variant="outline"
  >
    Submit
  </Button>
</Stack>
```

## Accessibility

- Button has `role` button.
- When Button has focus, <kbd>Space</kbd> and <kbd>Enter</kbd> activates it.

## Composition

Button composes [PseudoBox](/pseudobox) and all props you pass (variant,
colorScheme, etc.) are converted to style props. This means you can override any
style of the Button via props.

```jsx
// The size prop affects the height of the button
// but I can still override it by passing a custom height
<Button
  size="md"
  height="48px"
  width="200px"
  border="2px"
  borderColor="green.500"
>
  Button
</Button>
```

---

## Custom Button

In event you need to make your own custom button, you can leverage the
`PseudoBox` component. It provides the `hover`, `focus`, `active` and `disabled`
style props to style the button.

```jsx
// Button from facebook.com
<Box
  as="button"
  height="24px"
  lineHeight="1.2"
  transition="all 0.2s cubic-bezier(.08,.52,.52,1)"
  border="1px"
  px="8px"
  borderRadius="2px"
  fontSize="14px"
  fontWeight="semibold"
  bg="#f5f6f7"
  borderColor="#ccd0d5"
  color="#4b4f56"
  _hover={{ bg: "#ebedf0" }}
  _active={{
    bg: "#dddfe2",
    transform: "scale(0.98)",
    borderColor: "#bec3c9",
  }}
  _focus={{
    boxShadow:
      "0 0 1px 2px rgba(88, 144, 255, .75), 0 1px 1px rgba(0, 0, 0, .15)",
  }}
>
  Join Group
</Box>
```

## Props

The Button composes the `Box` component so you can pass props for `Box`. These
are props related to the Button component.

| Name          | Type                                              | Default | Description                                                                                               |
| ------------- | ------------------------------------------------- | ------- | --------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| `aria-label`  | `string`                                          |         | The label of the button                                                                                   |
| `colorScheme` | `string`                                          | `blue`  | The color of the button. Use the colors in `theme.colors` that have `50` - `900` values.                  |
| `variant`     | `outline`, `ghost`, `unstyled` , `link` , `solid` | `solid` | The variant of the button style to use.                                                                   |
| `isDisabled`  | `boolean`                                         |         | If `true`, the button will be disabled.                                                                   |
| `isLoading`   | `boolean`                                         |         | If `true`, the button will show a spinner.                                                                |
| `loadingText` | `string`                                          |         | The label to show in the button when `isLoading` is true. If no text is passed, it only shows the spinner |
| `size`        | `sm`, `md`, `lg`                                  | `md`    | The size of the button.                                                                                   |
