website/pages/docs/layout/flex.mdx, before:

---
title: Flex
package: "@chakra-ui/layout"
description:
  Flex is Box with display set to flex and comes with helpful style shorthand.
  It renders a `div` element.
---

Flex is [Box](/docs/layout/box) with `display: flex` and comes with helpful
style shorthand. It renders a `div` element.

<ComponentLinks
  github={{ url: "#" }}
  storybook={{ url: "#" }}
  npm={{ label: "@chakra-ui/layout", url: "#" }}
/>

<carbon-ad></carbon-ad>

## Import

```js
import { Flex, Spacer } from "@chakra-ui/core"
```

- **Flex:** A `Box` with `display: flex`.
- **Spacer:** Creates an adjustable, empty space that can be used to tune the
  spacing between child elements within `Flex`.

## Usage

Using the Flex components, here are some helpful shorthand props:

- `flexDirection` is `direction`
- `flexWrap` is `wrap`
- `alignItems` is `align`
- `justifyContent` is `justify`

While you can pass the verbose props, using the shorthand can save you some
time.

```jsx
<Flex color="white">
  <Center w="100px" bg="green.500">
    <Text>Box 1</Text>
  </Center>
  <Square bg="blue.500" size="150px">
    <Text>Box 2</Text>
  </Square>
  <Box flex="1" bg="tomato">
    <Text>Box 3</Text>
  </Box>
</Flex>
```

### Using the Spacer

As an alternative to `Stack`, you can combine `Flex` and `Spacer` to create
stackable and responsive layouts.

```jsx
<Flex>
  <Box p="4" bg="red.400">
    Box 1
  </Box>
  <Spacer />
  <Box p="4" bg="green.400">
    Box 2
  </Box>
</Flex>
```

### Flex and Spacer vs Grid vs Stack

The `Flex` and `Spacer` components, `Grid` and `HStack` treat children of
different widths differently.

- In `HStack`, the children will have equal spacing between them but they won't
  span the entire width of the container.
- In `Grid`, the starting points of the children will be equally spaced but the
  gaps between them will not be equal.
- With `Flex` and `Spacer`, the children will span the entire width of the
  container and also have equal spacing between them.

```jsx
<Box>
  <Text>Flex and Spacer: Full width, equal Spacing</Text>
  <Flex>
    <Box w="70px" h="10" bg="red.500" />
    <Spacer />
    <Box w="170px" h="10" bg="red.500" />
    <Spacer />
    <Box w="180px" h="10" bg="red.500" />
  </Flex>

  <Text>
    Grid: The children start at the beginning, the 1/3 mark and 2/3 mark
  </Text>
  <Grid templateColumns="repeat(3, 1fr)" gap={6}>
    <Box w="70px" h="10" bg="blue.500" />
    <Box w="170px" h="10" bg="blue.500" />
    <Box w="180px" h="10" bg="blue.500" />
  </Grid>

  <Text>
    HStack: The children have equal spacing but don't span the whole container
  </Text>
  <HStack spacing="24px">
    <Box w="70px" h="10" bg="teal.500" />
    <Box w="170px" h="10" bg="teal.500" />
    <Box w="180px" h="10" bg="teal.500" />
  </HStack>
</Box>
```

A good use case for `Spacer` is to create a navbar with a signup/login button
aligned to the right.

```jsx
<Flex>
  <Box p="2">
    <Heading size="md">Chakra App</Heading>
  </Box>
  <Spacer />
  <Box>
    <Button colorScheme="teal" mr="4">
      Sign Up
    </Button>
    <Button colorScheme="teal">Log in</Button>
  </Box>
</Flex>
```

Commit message:

docs(flex-shrink-shorthand): adds missing shorthand props for Flex

website/pages/docs/layout/flex.mdx, after:

---
title: Flex
package: "@chakra-ui/layout"
description:
  Flex is Box with display set to flex and comes with helpful style shorthand.
  It renders a `div` element.
---

Flex is [Box](/docs/layout/box) with `display: flex` and comes with helpful
style shorthand. It renders a `div` element.

<ComponentLinks
  github={{ url: "#" }}
  storybook={{ url: "#" }}
  npm={{ label: "@chakra-ui/layout", url: "#" }}
/>

<carbon-ad></carbon-ad>

## Import

```js
import { Flex, Spacer } from "@chakra-ui/core"
```

- **Flex:** A `Box` with `display: flex`.
- **Spacer:** Creates an adjustable, empty space that can be used to tune the
  spacing between child elements within `Flex`.

## Usage

Using the Flex components, here are some helpful shorthand props:

- `flexDirection` is `direction`
- `flexWrap` is `wrap`
- `flexBasis` is `basis`
- `flexGrow` is `grow`
- `flexShrink` is `shrink`
- `alignItems` is `align`
- `justifyContent` is `justify`

While you can pass the verbose props, using the shorthand can save you some
time.

```jsx
<Flex color="white">
  <Center w="100px" bg="green.500">
    <Text>Box 1</Text>
  </Center>
  <Square bg="blue.500" size="150px">
    <Text>Box 2</Text>
  </Square>
  <Box flex="1" bg="tomato">
    <Text>Box 3</Text>
  </Box>
</Flex>
```

### Using the Spacer

As an alternative to `Stack`, you can combine `Flex` and `Spacer` to create
stackable and responsive layouts.

```jsx
<Flex>
  <Box p="4" bg="red.400">
    Box 1
  </Box>
  <Spacer />
  <Box p="4" bg="green.400">
    Box 2
  </Box>
</Flex>
```

### Flex and Spacer vs Grid vs Stack

The `Flex` and `Spacer` components, `Grid` and `HStack` treat children of
different widths differently.

- In `HStack`, the children will have equal spacing between them but they won't
  span the entire width of the container.
- In `Grid`, the starting points of the children will be equally spaced but the
  gaps between them will not be equal.
- With `Flex` and `Spacer`, the children will span the entire width of the
  container and also have equal spacing between them.

```jsx
<Box>
  <Text>Flex and Spacer: Full width, equal Spacing</Text>
  <Flex>
    <Box w="70px" h="10" bg="red.500" />
    <Spacer />
    <Box w="170px" h="10" bg="red.500" />
    <Spacer />
    <Box w="180px" h="10" bg="red.500" />
  </Flex>

  <Text>
    Grid: The children start at the beginning, the 1/3 mark and 2/3 mark
  </Text>
  <Grid templateColumns="repeat(3, 1fr)" gap={6}>
    <Box w="70px" h="10" bg="blue.500" />
    <Box w="170px" h="10" bg="blue.500" />
    <Box w="180px" h="10" bg="blue.500" />
  </Grid>

  <Text>
    HStack: The children have equal spacing but don't span the whole container
  </Text>
  <HStack spacing="24px">
    <Box w="70px" h="10" bg="teal.500" />
    <Box w="170px" h="10" bg="teal.500" />
    <Box w="180px" h="10" bg="teal.500" />
  </HStack>
</Box>
```

A good use case for `Spacer` is to create a navbar with a signup/login button
aligned to the right.

```jsx
<Flex>
  <Box p="2">
    <Heading size="md">Chakra App</Heading>
  </Box>
  <Spacer />
  <Box>
    <Button colorScheme="teal" mr="4">
      Sign Up
    </Button>
    <Button colorScheme="teal">Log in</Button>
  </Box>
</Flex>
```
