website/docs/components/modal.mdx, before:

---
title: Modal
package: "@chakra-ui/modal"
image: "components/modal.svg"
description:
  A dialog is a window overlaid on either the primary window or another dialog
  window
---

import ComponentLinks from "../../src/components/component-links"

# Modal (Dialog)

A dialog is a window overlaid on either the primary window or another dialog
window. Content behind a modal dialog is **inert**, meaning that users cannot
interact with it.

<ComponentLinks
  github={{ url: "#" }}
  storybook={{ url: "#" }}
  npm={{ label: "@chakra-ui/modal", url: "#" }}
/>

<carbon-ad></carbon-ad>

> 🚨 Version (v1.0.0) introduced a breaking change to this component's API.
> Kindly update accordingly.

## Import

Chakra exports 7 components to help you create any modal dialog.

- `Modal`: The wrapper that provides context for its children
- `ModalOverlay`: The dimmed overlay behind the modal dialog
- `ModalContent`: The container for the modal dialog's content
- `ModalHeader`: The header that labels the modal dialog
- `ModalFooter`: The footer that houses the modal actions
- `ModalBody`: The wrapper that houses the modal's main content
- `ModalCloseButton`: The button that closes the modal.

```js
import {
  Modal,
  ModalOverlay,
  ModalContent,
  ModalHeader,
  ModalFooter,
  ModalBody,
  ModalCloseButton,
} from "@chakra-ui/core"
```

## Usage

When the modal opens, focus is sent into the modal and set to the first tabbable
element. If there are no tabbled elements, focus is set on `ModalContent`.

```jsx
function BasicUsage() {
  const { isOpen, onOpen, onClose } = useDisclosure()
  return (
    <>
      <Button onClick={onOpen}>Open Modal</Button>

      <Modal isOpen={isOpen} onClose={onClose}>
        <ModalOverlay>
          <ModalContent>
            <ModalHeader>Modal Title</ModalHeader>
            <ModalCloseButton />
            <ModalBody>
              <Lorem count={2} />
            </ModalBody>

            <ModalFooter>
              <Button colorScheme="blue" mr={3} onClick={onClose}>
                Close
              </Button>
              <Button variant="ghost">Secondary Action</Button>
            </ModalFooter>
          </ModalContent>
        </ModalOverlay>
      </Modal>
    </>
  )
}
```

### Control Focus when Modal closes

When the dialog closes, it returns focus to the element that triggered it. Set
`finalFocusRef` to change the element that should receive focus when the modal
closes.

```jsx
function ReturnFocus() {
  const { isOpen, onOpen, onClose } = useDisclosure()
  const finalRef = React.useRef()

  return (
    <>
      <Box ref={finalRef} tabIndex={-1} aria-label="Focus moved to this box">
        Some other content that'll receive focus on close.
      </Box>

      <Button mt={4} onClick={onOpen}>
        Open Modal
      </Button>
      <Modal finalFocusRef={finalRef} isOpen={isOpen} onClose={onClose}>
        <ModalOverlay>
          <ModalContent>
            <ModalHeader>Modal Title</ModalHeader>
            <ModalCloseButton />
            <ModalBody>
              <Lorem count={2} />
            </ModalBody>

            <ModalFooter>
              <Button colorScheme="blue" mr={3} onClick={onClose}>
                Close
              </Button>
              <Button variant="ghost">Secondary Action</Button>
            </ModalFooter>
          </ModalContent>
        </ModalOverlay>
      </Modal>
    </>
  )
}
```

### Block Scrolling when Modal opens

For accessibility, it's recommended to block scrolling on the main document
behind the modal. Chakra does this by default but you can set
`blockScrollOnMount` to `false` to allow scrolling behind the modal.

```jsx
function BasicUsage() {
  const { isOpen, onOpen, onClose } = useDisclosure()

  return (
    <>
      <Button onClick={onOpen}>Open Modal</Button>

      <Modal blockScrollOnMount={false} isOpen={isOpen} onClose={onClose}>
        <ModalOverlay>
          <ModalContent>
            <ModalHeader>Modal Title</ModalHeader>
            <ModalCloseButton />
            <ModalBody>
              <Text fontWeight="bold" mb="1rem">
                You can scroll the content behind the modal
              </Text>
              <Lorem count={2} />
            </ModalBody>

            <ModalFooter>
              <Button colorScheme="blue" mr={3} onClick={onClose}>
                Close
              </Button>
              <Button variant="ghost">Secondary Action</Button>
            </ModalFooter>
          </ModalContent>
        </ModalOverlay>
      </Modal>
    </>
  )
}
```

### Focus on specific element

Chakra automatically sets focus on the first tabbable element in the modal.
However, there might be scenarios where you need to manually control where focus
goes.

Chakra provides 2 props for this use case:

- `initialFocusRef`: The `ref` of the component that receives focus when the
  modal opens.
- `finalFocusRef`: The `ref` of the component that receives focus when the modal
  closes.

> If you set `finalFocusRef`, internally we set `returnFocusOnClose` to `false`
> so it doesn't return focus to the element that triggered it.

```jsx
function InitialFocus() {
  const { isOpen, onOpen, onClose } = useDisclosure()

  const initialRef = React.useRef()
  const finalRef = React.useRef()

  return (
    <>
      <Button onClick={onOpen}>Open Modal</Button>
      <Button ml={4} ref={finalRef}>
        I'll receive focus on close
      </Button>

      <Modal
        initialFocusRef={initialRef}
        finalFocusRef={finalRef}
        isOpen={isOpen}
        onClose={onClose}
      >
        <ModalOverlay>
          <ModalContent>
            <ModalHeader>Create your account</ModalHeader>
            <ModalCloseButton />
            <ModalBody pb={6}>
              <FormControl>
                <FormLabel>First name</FormLabel>
                <Input ref={initialRef} placeholder="First name" />
              </FormControl>

              <FormControl mt={4}>
                <FormLabel>Last name</FormLabel>
                <Input placeholder="Last name" />
              </FormControl>
            </ModalBody>

            <ModalFooter>
              <Button colorScheme="blue" mr={3}>
                Save
              </Button>
              <Button onClick={onClose}>Cancel</Button>
            </ModalFooter>
          </ModalContent>
        </ModalOverlay>
      </Modal>
    </>
  )
}
```

### Close Modal on Overlay Click

By default, the modal closes when you click its overlay. You can set
`closeOnOverlayClick` to `false` if you want the modal to stay visible.

```jsx
function ManualClose() {
  const { isOpen, onOpen, onClose } = useDisclosure()

  return (
    <>
      <Button onClick={onOpen}>Open Modal</Button>

      <Modal closeOnOverlayClick={false} isOpen={isOpen} onClose={onClose}>
        <ModalOverlay>
          <ModalContent>
            <ModalHeader>Create your account</ModalHeader>
            <ModalCloseButton />
            <ModalBody pb={6}>
              <Lorem count={2} />
            </ModalBody>

            <ModalFooter>
              <Button colorScheme="blue" mr={3}>
                Save
              </Button>
              <Button onClick={onClose}>Cancel</Button>
            </ModalFooter>
          </ModalContent>
        </ModalOverlay>
      </Modal>
    </>
  )
}
```

### Make modal vertically centered

By default the modal has a vertical offset of `3.75rem` which you can change by
passing `top` to the `ModalContent`. If you need to vertically center the modal,
pass the `isCentered` prop.

> If the content within the modal overflows beyond the viewport, don't use this
> prop. Try setting the [overflow behavior](#modal-overflow-behavior) instead.

```jsx
function VerticallyCenter() {
  const { isOpen, onOpen, onClose } = useDisclosure()

  return (
    <>
      <Button onClick={onOpen}>Trigger modal</Button>

      <Modal onClose={onClose} isOpen={isOpen} isCentered>
        <ModalOverlay>
          <ModalContent>
            <ModalHeader>Modal Title</ModalHeader>
            <ModalCloseButton />
            <ModalBody>
              <Lorem count={2} />
            </ModalBody>
            <ModalFooter>
              <Button>Close</Button>
            </ModalFooter>
          </ModalContent>
        </ModalOverlay>
      </Modal>
    </>
  )
}
```

### Adding transition

The modal doesn't come with any transitions by default so you can manage this
yourself. Chakra exports four transition components (`Fade`, `ScaleFade`, `Slide`, and `SlideFade`) to
provide simple transitions.

> For some reason, focus doesn't return back to the trigger after the transition
> ends. As a walkaround, you might need to set `finalFocusRef` to the trigger or
> any other element, and set `isOpen` to `true`.

```jsx live=false
function TransitionExample() {
  const { isOpen, onOpen, onClose } = useDisclosure()
  const btnRef = React.useRef()

  return (
    <>
      <Button ref={btnRef} onClick={onOpen}>
        Trigger modal
      </Button>

      <Slide in={isOpen}>
        {(styles) => (
          <Modal finalFocusRef={btnRef} onClose={onClose} isOpen={true}>
            <ModalOverlay opacity={styles.opacity}>
              <ModalContent pb={5} {...styles}>
                <ModalHeader>Login now</ModalHeader>
                <ModalCloseButton />
                <ModalBody>
                  <Lorem count={2} />
                </ModalBody>
              </ModalContent>
            </ModalOverlay>
          </Modal>
        )}
      </Slide>
    </>
  )
}
```

### Modal overflow behavior

If the content within the modal overflows beyond the viewport, you can use the
`scrollBehavior` to control how scrolling should happen.

- If set to `inside`, scroll only occurs within the `ModalBody`.
- If set to `outside`, the entire `ModalContent` will scroll within the
  viewport.

```jsx
function ScrollingExample() {
  const { isOpen, onOpen, onClose } = useDisclosure()
  const [scrollBehavior, setScrollBehavior] = React.useState("inside")

  const btnRef = React.useRef()
  return (
    <>
      <RadioGroup value={scrollBehavior} onChange={setScrollBehavior}>
        <Stack direction="row">
          <Radio value="inside">inside</Radio>
          <Radio value="outside">outside</Radio>
        </Stack>
      </RadioGroup>

      <Button mt={3} ref={btnRef} onClick={onOpen}>
        Trigger modal
      </Button>

      <Modal
        onClose={onClose}
        finalFocusRef={btnRef}
        isOpen={isOpen}
        scrollBehavior={scrollBehavior}
      >
        <ModalOverlay>
          <ModalContent>
            <ModalHeader>Modal Title</ModalHeader>
            <ModalCloseButton />
            <ModalBody>
              <Lorem size={5} />
            </ModalBody>
            <ModalFooter>
              <Button>Close</Button>
            </ModalFooter>
          </ModalContent>
        </ModalOverlay>
      </Modal>
    </>
  )
}
```

### Modal Sizes

Pass the `size` prop if you need to adjust the size of the modal. Values can be
`xs`, `sm`, `md`, `lg`, `xl`, or `full`.

```jsx
function SizeExample() {
  const { isOpen, onOpen, onClose } = useDisclosure()
  const [size, setSize] = React.useState("md")

  const handleSizeClick = (newSize) => {
    setSize(newSize)
    onOpen()
  }

  const sizes = ["xs", "sm", "md", "lg", "xl", "full"]

  return (
    <>
      {sizes.map((size) => (
        <Button
          onClick={() => handleSizeClick(size)}
          key={size}
          m={4}
        >{`Open ${size} Modal`}</Button>
      ))}

      <Modal onClose={onClose} size={size} isOpen={isOpen}>
        <ModalOverlay>
          <ModalContent>
            <ModalHeader>Modal Title</ModalHeader>
            <ModalCloseButton />
            <ModalBody>
              <Lorem count={2} />
            </ModalBody>
            <ModalFooter>
              <Button>Close</Button>
            </ModalFooter>
          </ModalContent>
        </ModalOverlay>
      </Modal>
    </>
  )
}
```

### Making other elements Inert

When the modal is open, it's rendered within a portal and all its siblings have
`aria-hidden` set to `true` so the only thing screen readers see is the modal.
To disable this behavior, set `useInert` to `false`.

## Accessibility

### Keyboard and Focus Management

- When the modal opens, focus is trapped within it.
- When the modal opens, focus is automatically set to the first enabled element,
  or the element from `initialFocusRef`.
- When the modal closes, focus returns to the element that was focused before
  the modal activated, or the element from `finalFocusRef`.
- Clicking on the overlay closes the Modal.
- Pressing <kbd>Esc</kbd> closes the Modal.
- Scrolling is blocked on the elements behind the modal.
- The modal is rendered in a portal attached to the end of `document.body` to
  break it out of the source order and make it easy to add `aria-hidden` to its
  siblings.

### ARIA

- The `ModalContent` has `aria-modal` set to `true`.
- The `ModalContent` has `aria-labelledby` set to the `id` of the `ModalHeader`
- The `ModalContent` has `aria-describedby` set to the `id` of the `ModalBody`

## Props

### Modal Props

| Name                | Type                      | Default   | Description                                                                                                                         |
| ------------------- | ------------------------- | --------- | ----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| isOpen              | `boolean`                 |           | If `true`, the modal will open                                                                                                      |
| onClose             | `(event, reason) => void` |           | Callback invoked to close the modal.                                                                                                |
| isCentered          | `boolean`                 |           | If `true`, the `Modal` will be centered on screen                                                                                   |
| initialFocusRef     | `React.Ref`               |           | The least destructive action to get focus when dialog is open                                                                       |
| finalFocusRef       | `React.Ref`               |           | The least destructive action to get focus when dialog is open                                                                       |
| blockScrollOnMount  | `boolean`                 | `true`    | If `true`, scrolling will be disabled on the `body` when the modal opens.                                                           |
| useInert            | `boolean`                 | `true`    | A11y: If `true`, the siblings of the `Modal` will have `aria-hidden` set to `true` so that screen readers can only see the `Modal`. |
| children            | `React.ReactNode`         |           | The content of the modal.                                                                                                           |
| size                | `BoxProps["maxWidth"]`    | `md`      | The size (maxWidth) of the modal.                                                                                                   |
| scrollBehavior      | `inside`, `outside`       | `outside` | Where scroll behaviour should originate.                                                                                            |
| closeOnOverlayClick | `boolean`                 | `true`    | If `true`, the modal will close when the overlay is clicked                                                                         |
| returnFocusOnClose  | `boolean`                 | `true`    | If `true`, the modal will return focus to the element that triggered it when it closes.                                             |
| closeOnEsc          | `boolean`                 | `true`    | If `true`, the modal will close when the `Esc` key is pressed                                                                       |
| id                  | `string`                  |           | The top-level `id` to use for the modal and it's sub-components                                                                     |

### Other components

- `ModalOverlay`, `ModalHeader`, `ModalFooter` and `ModalBody` composes `Box`
  component
- `ModalCloseButton` composes `CloseButton`

Commit message:

docs: add notes about trap focus for modal

website/docs/components/modal.mdx, after:

---
title: Modal
package: "@chakra-ui/modal"
image: "components/modal.svg"
description:
  A dialog is a window overlaid on either the primary window or another dialog
  window
---

import ComponentLinks from "../../src/components/component-links"

# Modal (Dialog)

A dialog is a window overlaid on either the primary window or another dialog
window. Content behind a modal dialog is **inert**, meaning that users cannot
interact with it.

<ComponentLinks
  github={{ url: "#" }}
  storybook={{ url: "#" }}
  npm={{ label: "@chakra-ui/modal", url: "#" }}
/>

<carbon-ad></carbon-ad>

> 🚨 Version (v1.0.0) introduced a breaking change to this component's API.
> Kindly update accordingly.

## Import

Chakra exports 7 components to help you create any modal dialog.

- `Modal`: The wrapper that provides context for its children
- `ModalOverlay`: The dimmed overlay behind the modal dialog
- `ModalContent`: The container for the modal dialog's content
- `ModalHeader`: The header that labels the modal dialog
- `ModalFooter`: The footer that houses the modal actions
- `ModalBody`: The wrapper that houses the modal's main content
- `ModalCloseButton`: The button that closes the modal.

```js
import {
  Modal,
  ModalOverlay,
  ModalContent,
  ModalHeader,
  ModalFooter,
  ModalBody,
  ModalCloseButton,
} from "@chakra-ui/core"
```

## Usage

When the modal opens, focus is sent into the modal and set to the first tabbable
element. If there are no tabbled elements, focus is set on `ModalContent`.

```jsx
function BasicUsage() {
  const { isOpen, onOpen, onClose } = useDisclosure()
  return (
    <>
      <Button onClick={onOpen}>Open Modal</Button>

      <Modal isOpen={isOpen} onClose={onClose}>
        <ModalOverlay>
          <ModalContent>
            <ModalHeader>Modal Title</ModalHeader>
            <ModalCloseButton />
            <ModalBody>
              <Lorem count={2} />
            </ModalBody>

            <ModalFooter>
              <Button colorScheme="blue" mr={3} onClick={onClose}>
                Close
              </Button>
              <Button variant="ghost">Secondary Action</Button>
            </ModalFooter>
          </ModalContent>
        </ModalOverlay>
      </Modal>
    </>
  )
}
```

### Control Focus when Modal closes

When the dialog closes, it returns focus to the element that triggered it. Set
`finalFocusRef` to change the element that should receive focus when the modal
closes.

```jsx
function ReturnFocus() {
  const { isOpen, onOpen, onClose } = useDisclosure()
  const finalRef = React.useRef()

  return (
    <>
      <Box ref={finalRef} tabIndex={-1} aria-label="Focus moved to this box">
        Some other content that'll receive focus on close.
      </Box>

      <Button mt={4} onClick={onOpen}>
        Open Modal
      </Button>
      <Modal finalFocusRef={finalRef} isOpen={isOpen} onClose={onClose}>
        <ModalOverlay>
          <ModalContent>
            <ModalHeader>Modal Title</ModalHeader>
            <ModalCloseButton />
            <ModalBody>
              <Lorem count={2} />
            </ModalBody>

            <ModalFooter>
              <Button colorScheme="blue" mr={3} onClick={onClose}>
                Close
              </Button>
              <Button variant="ghost">Secondary Action</Button>
            </ModalFooter>
          </ModalContent>
        </ModalOverlay>
      </Modal>
    </>
  )
}
```

### Block Scrolling when Modal opens

For accessibility, it's recommended to block scrolling on the main document
behind the modal. Chakra does this by default but you can set
`blockScrollOnMount` to `false` to allow scrolling behind the modal.

```jsx
function BasicUsage() {
  const { isOpen, onOpen, onClose } = useDisclosure()

  return (
    <>
      <Button onClick={onOpen}>Open Modal</Button>

      <Modal blockScrollOnMount={false} isOpen={isOpen} onClose={onClose}>
        <ModalOverlay>
          <ModalContent>
            <ModalHeader>Modal Title</ModalHeader>
            <ModalCloseButton />
            <ModalBody>
              <Text fontWeight="bold" mb="1rem">
                You can scroll the content behind the modal
              </Text>
              <Lorem count={2} />
            </ModalBody>

            <ModalFooter>
              <Button colorScheme="blue" mr={3} onClick={onClose}>
                Close
              </Button>
              <Button variant="ghost">Secondary Action</Button>
            </ModalFooter>
          </ModalContent>
        </ModalOverlay>
      </Modal>
    </>
  )
}
```

### Focus on specific element

Chakra automatically sets focus on the first tabbable element in the modal.
However, there might be scenarios where you need to manually control where focus
goes.

Chakra provides 2 props for this use case:

- `initialFocusRef`: The `ref` of the component that receives focus when the
  modal opens.
- `finalFocusRef`: The `ref` of the component that receives focus when the modal
  closes.

> If you set `finalFocusRef`, internally we set `returnFocusOnClose` to `false`
> so it doesn't return focus to the element that triggered it.

```jsx
function InitialFocus() {
  const { isOpen, onOpen, onClose } = useDisclosure()

  const initialRef = React.useRef()
  const finalRef = React.useRef()

  return (
    <>
      <Button onClick={onOpen}>Open Modal</Button>
      <Button ml={4} ref={finalRef}>
        I'll receive focus on close
      </Button>

      <Modal
        initialFocusRef={initialRef}
        finalFocusRef={finalRef}
        isOpen={isOpen}
        onClose={onClose}
      >
        <ModalOverlay>
          <ModalContent>
            <ModalHeader>Create your account</ModalHeader>
            <ModalCloseButton />
            <ModalBody pb={6}>
              <FormControl>
                <FormLabel>First name</FormLabel>
                <Input ref={initialRef} placeholder="First name" />
              </FormControl>

              <FormControl mt={4}>
                <FormLabel>Last name</FormLabel>
                <Input placeholder="Last name" />
              </FormControl>
            </ModalBody>

            <ModalFooter>
              <Button colorScheme="blue" mr={3}>
                Save
              </Button>
              <Button onClick={onClose}>Cancel</Button>
            </ModalFooter>
          </ModalContent>
        </ModalOverlay>
      </Modal>
    </>
  )
}
```

### Close Modal on Overlay Click

By default, the modal closes when you click its overlay. You can set
`closeOnOverlayClick` to `false` if you want the modal to stay visible.

```jsx
function ManualClose() {
  const { isOpen, onOpen, onClose } = useDisclosure()

  return (
    <>
      <Button onClick={onOpen}>Open Modal</Button>

      <Modal closeOnOverlayClick={false} isOpen={isOpen} onClose={onClose}>
        <ModalOverlay>
          <ModalContent>
            <ModalHeader>Create your account</ModalHeader>
            <ModalCloseButton />
            <ModalBody pb={6}>
              <Lorem count={2} />
            </ModalBody>

            <ModalFooter>
              <Button colorScheme="blue" mr={3}>
                Save
              </Button>
              <Button onClick={onClose}>Cancel</Button>
            </ModalFooter>
          </ModalContent>
        </ModalOverlay>
      </Modal>
    </>
  )
}
```

### Make modal vertically centered

By default the modal has a vertical offset of `3.75rem` which you can change by
passing `top` to the `ModalContent`. If you need to vertically center the modal,
pass the `isCentered` prop.

> If the content within the modal overflows beyond the viewport, don't use this
> prop. Try setting the [overflow behavior](#modal-overflow-behavior) instead.

```jsx
function VerticallyCenter() {
  const { isOpen, onOpen, onClose } = useDisclosure()

  return (
    <>
      <Button onClick={onOpen}>Trigger modal</Button>

      <Modal onClose={onClose} isOpen={isOpen} isCentered>
        <ModalOverlay>
          <ModalContent>
            <ModalHeader>Modal Title</ModalHeader>
            <ModalCloseButton />
            <ModalBody>
              <Lorem count={2} />
            </ModalBody>
            <ModalFooter>
              <Button>Close</Button>
            </ModalFooter>
          </ModalContent>
        </ModalOverlay>
      </Modal>
    </>
  )
}
```

### Adding transition

The modal doesn't come with any transitions by default so you can manage this
yourself. Chakra exports four transition components (`Fade`, `ScaleFade`,
`Slide`, and `SlideFade`) to provide simple transitions.

> For some reason, focus doesn't return back to the trigger after the transition
> ends. As a walkaround, you might need to set `finalFocusRef` to the trigger or
> any other element, and set `isOpen` to `true`.

```jsx live=false
function TransitionExample() {
  const { isOpen, onOpen, onClose } = useDisclosure()
  const btnRef = React.useRef()

  return (
    <>
      <Button ref={btnRef} onClick={onOpen}>
        Trigger modal
      </Button>

      <Slide in={isOpen}>
        {(styles) => (
          <Modal finalFocusRef={btnRef} onClose={onClose} isOpen={true}>
            <ModalOverlay opacity={styles.opacity}>
              <ModalContent pb={5} {...styles}>
                <ModalHeader>Login now</ModalHeader>
                <ModalCloseButton />
                <ModalBody>
                  <Lorem count={2} />
                </ModalBody>
              </ModalContent>
            </ModalOverlay>
          </Modal>
        )}
      </Slide>
    </>
  )
}
```

### Modal overflow behavior

If the content within the modal overflows beyond the viewport, you can use the
`scrollBehavior` to control how scrolling should happen.

- If set to `inside`, scroll only occurs within the `ModalBody`.
- If set to `outside`, the entire `ModalContent` will scroll within the
  viewport.

```jsx
function ScrollingExample() {
  const { isOpen, onOpen, onClose } = useDisclosure()
  const [scrollBehavior, setScrollBehavior] = React.useState("inside")

  const btnRef = React.useRef()
  return (
    <>
      <RadioGroup value={scrollBehavior} onChange={setScrollBehavior}>
        <Stack direction="row">
          <Radio value="inside">inside</Radio>
          <Radio value="outside">outside</Radio>
        </Stack>
      </RadioGroup>

      <Button mt={3} ref={btnRef} onClick={onOpen}>
        Trigger modal
      </Button>

      <Modal
        onClose={onClose}
        finalFocusRef={btnRef}
        isOpen={isOpen}
        scrollBehavior={scrollBehavior}
      >
        <ModalOverlay>
          <ModalContent>
            <ModalHeader>Modal Title</ModalHeader>
            <ModalCloseButton />
            <ModalBody>
              <Lorem size={5} />
            </ModalBody>
            <ModalFooter>
              <Button>Close</Button>
            </ModalFooter>
          </ModalContent>
        </ModalOverlay>
      </Modal>
    </>
  )
}
```

### Modal Sizes

Pass the `size` prop if you need to adjust the size of the modal. Values can be
`xs`, `sm`, `md`, `lg`, `xl`, or `full`.

```jsx
function SizeExample() {
  const { isOpen, onOpen, onClose } = useDisclosure()
  const [size, setSize] = React.useState("md")

  const handleSizeClick = (newSize) => {
    setSize(newSize)
    onOpen()
  }

  const sizes = ["xs", "sm", "md", "lg", "xl", "full"]

  return (
    <>
      {sizes.map((size) => (
        <Button
          onClick={() => handleSizeClick(size)}
          key={size}
          m={4}
        >{`Open ${size} Modal`}</Button>
      ))}

      <Modal onClose={onClose} size={size} isOpen={isOpen}>
        <ModalOverlay>
          <ModalContent>
            <ModalHeader>Modal Title</ModalHeader>
            <ModalCloseButton />
            <ModalBody>
              <Lorem count={2} />
            </ModalBody>
            <ModalFooter>
              <Button>Close</Button>
            </ModalFooter>
          </ModalContent>
        </ModalOverlay>
      </Modal>
    </>
  )
}
```

### Making other elements Inert

When the modal is open, it's rendered within a portal and all its siblings have
`aria-hidden` set to `true` so the only thing screen readers see is the modal.
To disable this behavior, set `useInert` to `false`.

### Prevent focus trapping

By default the modal, alert dialog and drawer locks the focus inside them.
Normally this is what you want to maintain accessibility standards.

**While strongly discourage this use case** due to it's accessibility impacts,
there are certain situations where you might not want the modal to trap focus.

To prevent focus trapping, pass `trapFocus` and set it's value to `false`.

## Accessibility

### Keyboard and Focus Management

- When the modal opens, focus is trapped within it.
- When the modal opens, focus is automatically set to the first enabled element,
  or the element from `initialFocusRef`.
- When the modal closes, focus returns to the element that was focused before
  the modal activated, or the element from `finalFocusRef`.
- Clicking on the overlay closes the Modal.
- Pressing <kbd>Esc</kbd> closes the Modal.
- Scrolling is blocked on the elements behind the modal.
- The modal is rendered in a portal attached to the end of `document.body` to
  break it out of the source order and make it easy to add `aria-hidden` to its
  siblings.

### ARIA

- The `ModalContent` has `aria-modal` set to `true`.
- The `ModalContent` has `aria-labelledby` set to the `id` of the `ModalHeader`
- The `ModalContent` has `aria-describedby` set to the `id` of the `ModalBody`

## Props

### Modal Props

| Name                | Type                      | Default   | Description                                                                                                                         |
| ------------------- | ------------------------- | --------- | ----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| isOpen              | `boolean`                 |           | If `true`, the modal will open                                                                                                      |
| onClose             | `(event, reason) => void` |           | Callback invoked to close the modal.                                                                                                |
| isCentered          | `boolean`                 |           | If `true`, the `Modal` will be centered on screen                                                                                   |
| initialFocusRef     | `React.Ref`               |           | The least destructive action to get focus when dialog is open                                                                       |
| finalFocusRef       | `React.Ref`               |           | The least destructive action to get focus when dialog is open                                                                       |
| blockScrollOnMount  | `boolean`                 | `true`    | If `true`, scrolling will be disabled on the `body` when the modal opens.                                                           |
| useInert            | `boolean`                 | `true`    | A11y: If `true`, the siblings of the `Modal` will have `aria-hidden` set to `true` so that screen readers can only see the `Modal`. |
| children            | `React.ReactNode`         |           | The content of the modal.                                                                                                           |
| size                | `BoxProps["maxWidth"]`    | `md`      | The size (maxWidth) of the modal.                                                                                                   |
| scrollBehavior      | `inside`, `outside`       | `outside` | Where scroll behaviour should originate.                                                                                            |
| closeOnOverlayClick | `boolean`                 | `true`    | If `true`, the modal will close when the overlay is clicked                                                                         |
| returnFocusOnClose  | `boolean`                 | `true`    | If `true`, the modal will return focus to the element that triggered it when it closes.                                             |
| closeOnEsc          | `boolean`                 | `true`    | If `true`, the modal will close when the `Esc` key is pressed                                                                       |
| id                  | `string`                  |           | The top-level `id` to use for the modal and it's sub-components                                                                     |

### Other components

- `ModalOverlay`, `ModalHeader`, `ModalFooter` and `ModalBody` composes `Box`
  component
- `ModalCloseButton` composes `CloseButton`
