website/pages/guides/as-prop.mdx, before:

---
title: The `as` prop and Custom component
description:
  How to get the `as` prop working properly for your custom components
---

By default, all Chakra components work with the `as` prop. There might be some
cases where you need to create smaller components with pre-defined styles, and
need the `as` prop to work as well.

For example, let's say you create a `Card` component with pre-defined styles
like this:

```tsx live=false
const Card = (props: BoxProps) => (
  <Box px="4" py="5" rounded="sm" shadow="lg" {...props} />
)
```

and you need to need to consume this component in a way that works with the `as`
prop, like this:

```tsx live=false
const Usage = () => <Card as="button">This is a card</Card>
```

You might run into type errors like this:

```sh
Type '{ children: string; as: string; }' is not assignable to type 'IntrinsicAttributes & BoxProps'.
  Property 'as' does not exist on type 'IntrinsicAttributes & BoxProps'.
```

To resolve this, you have 3 options

## Option 1: Using `forwardRef` from `@chakra-ui/core`

This is the recommended approach as it ensures your components forwards their
reference properly.

> Note 🚨: You need to use forwardRef from chakra-ui not react.

```tsx live=false
import { forwardRef, Box, BoxProps } from "@chakra-ui/core"

const Card = forwardRef<BoxProps, "div">((props, ref) => (
  <Box px="4" py="5" rounded="sm" shadow="lg" ref={ref} {...props} />
))
```

## Option 2: Cast the component as a `ChakraComponent`

The `ChakraComponent` is a type we use internally to mark specific components as
Chakra components rather than using `React.FC`.

This is because a `ChakraComponent` comes props from the React component or
element type, and adds chakra specific style props.

`ChakraComponent` takes 2 type generic, the element type (like "div", "button",
etc), and any custom props (like `isOpen`, `isDisabled`, etc)

```tsx live=false
import { ChakraComponent, Box, BoxProps } from "@chakra-ui/core"

type DivComponent = ChakraComponent<"div", {}>

const Card = ((props: BoxProps) => (
  <Box px="4" py="5" rounded="sm" shadow="lg" {...props} />
)) as DivComponent
```

## Option 3: Use the `chakra` factory function

The Chakra factory function is still a work in progress but it can be useful in
this case as well. It can also be used to convert a non-chakra component into a
Chakra enabled component.

What you need to do is to call the `chakra` function and pass it any element or
component type.

```tsx live=false
import { chakra } from "@chakra-ui/core"

const Card = chakra("div", {
  // attach style props
  baseStyle: {
    px: "4",
    py: "5",
    rounded: "sm",
    shadow: "lg",
  },
})
```

These are the cases you can get the `as` prop working with custom components. At
least for now.

Commit message:

docs: add tags and author to as-prop guide

website/pages/guides/as-prop.mdx, after:

---
title: The as prop and Custom component
description:
  "How to get the as prop working properly for your custom components"
tags: ["typescript", "polymorphic", "component"]
author: segunadebayo
---

By default, all Chakra components work with the `as` prop. There might be some
cases where you need to create smaller components with pre-defined styles, and
need the `as` prop to work as well.

For example, let's say you create a `Card` component with pre-defined styles
like this:

```tsx live=false
const Card = (props: BoxProps) => (
  <Box px="4" py="5" rounded="sm" shadow="lg" {...props} />
)
```

and you need to need to consume this component in a way that works with the `as`
prop, like this:

```tsx live=false
const Usage = () => <Card as="button">This is a card</Card>
```

You might run into type errors like this:

```sh
Type '{ children: string; as: string; }' is not assignable to type 'IntrinsicAttributes & BoxProps'.
  Property 'as' does not exist on type 'IntrinsicAttributes & BoxProps'.
```

To resolve this, you have 3 options

## Option 1: Using `forwardRef` from `@chakra-ui/core`

This is the recommended approach as it ensures your components forwards their
reference properly.

> Note 🚨: You need to use forwardRef from chakra-ui not react.

```tsx live=false
import { forwardRef, Box, BoxProps } from "@chakra-ui/core"

const Card = forwardRef<BoxProps, "div">((props, ref) => (
  <Box px="4" py="5" rounded="sm" shadow="lg" ref={ref} {...props} />
))
```

## Option 2: Cast the component as a `ChakraComponent`

The `ChakraComponent` is a type we use internally to mark specific components as
Chakra components rather than using `React.FC`.

This is because a `ChakraComponent` comes props from the React component or
element type, and adds chakra specific style props.

`ChakraComponent` takes 2 type generic, the element type (like "div", "button",
etc), and any custom props (like `isOpen`, `isDisabled`, etc)

```tsx live=false
import { ChakraComponent, Box, BoxProps } from "@chakra-ui/core"

type DivComponent = ChakraComponent<"div", {}>

const Card = ((props: BoxProps) => (
  <Box px="4" py="5" rounded="sm" shadow="lg" {...props} />
)) as DivComponent
```

## Option 3: Use the `chakra` factory function

The Chakra factory function is still a work in progress but it can be useful in
this case as well. It can also be used to convert a non-chakra component into a
Chakra enabled component.

What you need to do is to call the `chakra` function and pass it any element or
component type.

```tsx live=false
import { chakra } from "@chakra-ui/core"

const Card = chakra("div", {
  // attach style props
  baseStyle: {
    px: "4",
    py: "5",
    rounded: "sm",
    shadow: "lg",
  },
})
```

These are the cases you can get the `as` prop working with custom components. At
least for now.
