website/docs/layout/stack.mdx, before:

---
title: Stack
package: "@chakra-ui/layout"
image: "components/stack.svg"
description:
  Stack is a layout utility component that makes it easy to stack elements
  together and apply a space between them.
---

import ComponentLinks from "../../src/components/component-links"

# Stack

Stack is a layout component that makes it easy to stack elements together and
apply a space between them.

<ComponentLinks
  github={{ url: "#" }}
  storybook={{ url: "#" }}
  npm={{ label: "@chakra-ui/layout", url: "#" }}
/>

<carbon-ad></carbon-ad>

## Import

```js
import { Stack, HStack, VStack } from "@chakra-ui/core"
```

- **Stack:** Used to add spacing between elements in the horizontal or vertical
  direction. It supports responsive values.
- **HStack:** Used to add spacing between elements in horizontal direction, and
  centers them.
- **VStack:** Used to add spacing between elements in vertical direction only,
  and centers them.

## Usage

Stack components use a modified version of the
[CSS lobotomized owl selector](https://alistapart.com/article/axiomatic-css-and-lobotomized-owls/)
to add spacing between it's children.

### Basic

To stack elements in horizontal or vertical direction only, use the `VStack` and
`HStack` components.

You can also use the `Stack` component as well and pass the `direction` prop.

```jsx
<HStack spacing="24px">
  <Box w="40px" h="40px" bg="yellow.200">
    1
  </Box>
  <Box w="40px" h="40px" bg="tomato">
    2
  </Box>
  <Box w="40px" h="40px" bg="pink.100">
    3
  </Box>
</HStack>
```

### Responsive direction

You can pass responsive values to the `Stack` component to change stack
direction and/or spacing between elements.

```jsx
<Stack direction={["column", "row"]} spacing="24px">
  <Box w="40px" h="40px" bg="yellow.200">
    1
  </Box>
  <Box w="40px" h="40px" bg="tomato">
    2
  </Box>
  <Box w="40px" h="40px" bg="pink.100">
    3
  </Box>
</Stack>
```

### Adding dividers

In some scenarios, you might want to add dividers between stacked elements. Pass
the `divider` prop and set it's value to the `StackDivider` or any custom React
element.

```jsx
<VStack
  divider={<StackDivider borderColor="gray.200" />}
  spacing={4}
  align="stretch"
>
  <Box h="40px" bg="yellow.200">
    1
  </Box>
  <Box h="40px" bg="tomato">
    2
  </Box>
  <Box h="40px" bg="pink.100">
    3
  </Box>
</VStack>
```

### Example

```jsx manual=true
function Feature({ title, desc, ...rest }) {
  return (
    <Box p={5} shadow="md" borderWidth="1px" {...rest}>
      <Heading fontSize="xl">{title}</Heading>
      <Text mt={4}>{desc}</Text>
    </Box>
  )
}

function StackEx() {
  return (
    <Stack spacing={8}>
      <Feature
        title="Plan Money"
        desc="The future can be even brighter but a goal without a plan is just a wish"
      />
      <Feature
        title="Save Money"
        desc="You deserve good things. With a whooping 10-15% interest rate per annum, grow your savings on your own terms with our completely automated process"
      />
    </Stack>
  )
}

render(<StackEx />)
```

### Stack items horizontally

Pass the `direction` and set it to `row`. Optionally, you can use `align` and
`justify` to adjust the alignment and distribution of the items.

```jsx manual=true
function Feature({ title, desc, ...rest }) {
  return (
    <Box
      p={5}
      shadow="md"
      borderWidth="1px"
      flex="1"
      borderRadius="md"
      {...rest}
    >
      <Heading fontSize="xl">{title}</Heading>
      <Text mt={4}>{desc}</Text>
    </Box>
  )
}

function StackEx() {
  return (
    <HStack spacing={8}>
      <Feature
        title="Plan Money"
        desc="The future can be even brighter but a goal without a plan is just a wish"
      />
      <Feature
        title="Save Money"
        desc="You deserve good things. With a whooping 10-15% interest rate per annum, grow your savings."
      />
    </HStack>
  )
}

render(<StackEx />)
```

### Props

| Name                 | Type                          | Description                                                                                                              |
| -------------------- | ----------------------------- | ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------ |
| `direction`          | `Responsive(row or column)`   | The direction to stack the elements                                                                                      |
| `divider`            | `ReactElement`                | The divider element to use between elements                                                                              |
| `children`           | `ReactNode`                   | The elements to be stackes                                                                                               |
| `spacing`            | `MarginProps`                 | The space between each stack item. Defaults to `0.5rem`                                                                  |
| `align`              | `FlexProps["alignItems"]`     | The alignment of the stack item. Similar to `align-items`                                                                |
| `justify`            | `FlexProps["justifyContent"]` | The distribution of the stack item. Similar to `justify-content`                                                         |
| `shouldWrapChildren` | `boolean`                     | If `true`, the children will be wrapped in a `Box` with `display: inline-block`, and the Box will take the spacing props |

Commit message:

docs: added not about Stack's primary use case and using Flex for more control

website/docs/layout/stack.mdx, after:

---
title: Stack
package: "@chakra-ui/layout"
image: "components/stack.svg"
description:
  Stack is a layout utility component that makes it easy to stack elements
  together and apply a space between them.
---

import ComponentLinks from "../../src/components/component-links"

# Stack

Stack is a layout component that makes it easy to stack elements together and
apply a space between them.

<ComponentLinks
  github={{ url: "#" }}
  storybook={{ url: "#" }}
  npm={{ label: "@chakra-ui/layout", url: "#" }}
/>

<carbon-ad></carbon-ad>

## Import

```js
import { Stack, HStack, VStack } from "@chakra-ui/core"
```

- **Stack:** Used to add spacing between elements in the horizontal or vertical
  direction. It supports responsive values.
- **HStack:** Used to add spacing between elements in horizontal direction, and
  centers them.
- **VStack:** Used to add spacing between elements in vertical direction only,
  and centers them.

## Usage

Stack components use a modified version of the
[CSS lobotomized owl selector](https://alistapart.com/article/axiomatic-css-and-lobotomized-owls/)
to add spacing between it's children.

Stack's primary use case is to layout items and control the spacing between each item.
If you have a more complicated use case, such as changing the margin on the last child,
you can combine Stack and Flex and use `justify-content: space-between` for more control of
the layout.

### Basic

To stack elements in horizontal or vertical direction only, use the `VStack` and
`HStack` components.

You can also use the `Stack` component as well and pass the `direction` prop.

```jsx
<HStack spacing="24px">
  <Box w="40px" h="40px" bg="yellow.200">
    1
  </Box>
  <Box w="40px" h="40px" bg="tomato">
    2
  </Box>
  <Box w="40px" h="40px" bg="pink.100">
    3
  </Box>
</HStack>
```

### Responsive direction

You can pass responsive values to the `Stack` component to change stack
direction and/or spacing between elements.

```jsx
<Stack direction={["column", "row"]} spacing="24px">
  <Box w="40px" h="40px" bg="yellow.200">
    1
  </Box>
  <Box w="40px" h="40px" bg="tomato">
    2
  </Box>
  <Box w="40px" h="40px" bg="pink.100">
    3
  </Box>
</Stack>
```

### Adding dividers

In some scenarios, you might want to add dividers between stacked elements. Pass
the `divider` prop and set it's value to the `StackDivider` or any custom React
element.

```jsx
<VStack
  divider={<StackDivider borderColor="gray.200" />}
  spacing={4}
  align="stretch"
>
  <Box h="40px" bg="yellow.200">
    1
  </Box>
  <Box h="40px" bg="tomato">
    2
  </Box>
  <Box h="40px" bg="pink.100">
    3
  </Box>
</VStack>
```

### Example

```jsx manual=true
function Feature({ title, desc, ...rest }) {
  return (
    <Box p={5} shadow="md" borderWidth="1px" {...rest}>
      <Heading fontSize="xl">{title}</Heading>
      <Text mt={4}>{desc}</Text>
    </Box>
  )
}

function StackEx() {
  return (
    <Stack spacing={8}>
      <Feature
        title="Plan Money"
        desc="The future can be even brighter but a goal without a plan is just a wish"
      />
      <Feature
        title="Save Money"
        desc="You deserve good things. With a whooping 10-15% interest rate per annum, grow your savings on your own terms with our completely automated process"
      />
    </Stack>
  )
}

render(<StackEx />)
```

### Stack items horizontally

Pass the `direction` and set it to `row`. Optionally, you can use `align` and
`justify` to adjust the alignment and distribution of the items.

```jsx manual=true
function Feature({ title, desc, ...rest }) {
  return (
    <Box
      p={5}
      shadow="md"
      borderWidth="1px"
      flex="1"
      borderRadius="md"
      {...rest}
    >
      <Heading fontSize="xl">{title}</Heading>
      <Text mt={4}>{desc}</Text>
    </Box>
  )
}

function StackEx() {
  return (
    <HStack spacing={8}>
      <Feature
        title="Plan Money"
        desc="The future can be even brighter but a goal without a plan is just a wish"
      />
      <Feature
        title="Save Money"
        desc="You deserve good things. With a whooping 10-15% interest rate per annum, grow your savings."
      />
    </HStack>
  )
}

render(<StackEx />)
```

### Props

| Name                 | Type                                                     | Description                                                                                                              |
| -------------------- | -------------------------------------------------------- | ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------ |
| `direction`          | `Responsive(row, column, row-reverse, column-reverse)`   | The direction to stack the elements                                                                                      |
| `divider`            | `ReactElement`                                           | The divider element to use between elements                                                                              |
| `children`           | `ReactNode`                                              | The elements to be stackes                                                                                               |
| `spacing`            | `MarginProps`                                            | The space between each stack item. Defaults to `0.5rem`                                                                  |
| `align`              | `FlexProps["alignItems"]`                                | The alignment of the stack item. Similar to `align-items`                                                                |
| `justify`            | `FlexProps["justifyContent"]`                            | The distribution of the stack item. Similar to `justify-content`                                                         |
| `shouldWrapChildren` | `boolean`                                                | If `true`, the children will be wrapped in a `Box` with `display: inline-block`, and the Box will take the spacing props |
