website/pages/docs/getting-started.mdx, before:

---
title: Getting Started
description: How to install and set up Chakra UI in your local project
---

**First, you need to install Chakra UI**

```bash
npm i @chakra-ui/core@next

# or

yarn add @chakra-ui/core@next
```

**Next, install the default theme**

Chakra has prepared a default theme for you that you can modify or extends. The
theme contains specifications for the fonts, font sizes, colors, etc.

To get the default theme, install the `@chakra-ui/theme` package.

```bash
npm i @chakra-ui/theme@next

# or

yarn add @chakra-ui/theme@next
```

**Next, add the provider**

For Chakra to work correctly, you need to setup the global provider and add
browser css reset. At the root of your application, here's what you need do:

```jsx live=false
import * as React from "react"
// 1. import these components
import { ChakraProvider } from "@chakra-ui/core"

// 2. import the theme
import theme from "@chakra-ui/theme"

// 3. Use at the root of your app
function App() {
  return (
    <ChakraProvider resetCSS theme={theme}>
      <App />
    </ChakraProvider>
  )
}
```

> - For Next.js, you need to set this up in `pages/_app.js`
> - For Gatsby, install the `gatsby-plugin-chakra-ui`. It does it automatically
>   for you.
> - For Create React App, you need to set this up in `index.js`

<br />

That's it, you're good to go!

## TypeScript

Please note that when adding Chakra UI to a TypeScript project, a minimum
TypeScript version of `3.8.0` is required.

If you're adding Chakra UI to a `create-react-app` project, this means you'll
need to manually upgrade `typescript` to `^3.8.0`.

See [the guide for our create-react-app](../guides/cra-templates) templates if
you'd like to generate a Chakra-enabled `create-react-app` project from scratch.

## Contributing

Please see our [contribution guidelines](/contributing) to learn how you can
contribute to this project.

Commit message:

docs(installation): add CRA templates guide note

website/pages/docs/getting-started.mdx, after:

---
title: Getting Started
description: How to install and set up Chakra UI in your local project
---

**First, you need to install Chakra UI**

> For `create-react-app` installation instructions, see the
> [official CRA templates guide](/guides/integrations/with-cra) instead.

```bash
npm i @chakra-ui/core@next

# or

yarn add @chakra-ui/core@next
```

**Next, install the default theme**

Chakra has prepared a default theme for you that you can modify or extends. The
theme contains specifications for the fonts, font sizes, colors, etc.

To get the default theme, install the `@chakra-ui/theme` package.

```bash
npm i @chakra-ui/theme@next

# or

yarn add @chakra-ui/theme@next
```

**Next, add the provider**

For Chakra to work correctly, you need to setup the global provider and add
browser css reset. At the root of your application, here's what you need do:

```jsx live=false
import * as React from "react"
// 1. import these components
import { ChakraProvider } from "@chakra-ui/core"

// 2. import the theme
import theme from "@chakra-ui/theme"

// 3. Use at the root of your app
function App() {
  return (
    <ChakraProvider resetCSS theme={theme}>
      <App />
    </ChakraProvider>
  )
}
```

> - For Next.js, you need to set this up in `pages/_app.js`
> - For Gatsby, install the `gatsby-plugin-chakra-ui`. It does it automatically
>   for you.
> - For Create React App, you need to set this up in `index.js`

<br />

That's it, you're good to go!

## TypeScript

Please note that when adding Chakra UI to a TypeScript project, a minimum
TypeScript version of `3.8.0` is required.

If you're adding Chakra UI to a `create-react-app` project, this means you'll
need to manually upgrade `typescript` to `^3.8.0`.

See [the guide for our create-react-app](../guides/cra-templates) templates if
you'd like to generate a Chakra-enabled `create-react-app` project from scratch.

## Contributing

Please see our [contribution guidelines](/contributing) to learn how you can
contribute to this project.
