website/pages/docs/migration.mdx, before:

---
title: Upgrading from v0.x to v1.x
description: How to upgrade your existing Chakra UI projects to v1.0
---

A simple guide to upgrade your existing Chakra UI projects to v1.0.

Chakra UI v1.0 is focused on improving the ideas and concepts from 0.x to make
even easier to create, theme and extend components.

While there's quite a number of new features we've added, we focused on making
Chakra UI a stable base to build your own design systems on top of. In the end,
we want make you feel more confident using Chakra UI in production.

---

## Highlights

**Theming API:** Chakra UI now provides a new theming API which makes it easy to
style components and their modifiers (sizes, variants, and color scheme) from
your theme.

**Color mode improvement:** We've fixed the bugs related to Color mode and made
it possible to persist color mode, set initial color mode, and lock specific
components to a certain color mode.

**Better TypeScript support:** This means all components have very good
TypeScript support and most low-level components like `Box`, `Flex` will support
the `as` prop and types will be extracted properly.

**Theme-aware sx prop:** Just like `theme-ui`, we've added support for the `sx`
prop to help you add theme-aware styles directly on any Chakra component. This
is useful if you're not a fan of style props, and prefer passing all styles in
one object.

**Deprecated PseudoBox:** We've removed `PseudoBox` and merged all it's props
with `Box` so you can use pseudo style props, like `_hover`, `_active` in any
Chakra components.

---

## Upgrade steps

Here's a list of steps to take in order to migrate your project safely. Don't
worry if your styles aren't exactly the same — this is to be expected.

### 1. Update your dependencies

Chakra no longer requires `@emotion/core`, `@emotion/styled` and
`emotion-theming` peer dependencies. If you're not using these libraries in your
code, you can safely remove them and update Chakra UI to v1.

```diff
"dependencies": {
  "@chakra-ui/core": "next",
-  "@emotion/core": "10.x",
-  "@emotion/styled": "10.X",
-  "emotion-theming": "10.x"
}
```

> Please note that when using Chakra UI in a TypeScript project, a minimum
> TypeScript version of `3.8.0` is required.

#### Notes on Icons

Chakra moved all icons to a separate package `@chakra-ui/icons`. We recommend
using `react-icons` in your projects considering it has a robust set of icons.
However, you can still install this package.

### 2. Update the ThemeProvider

Swap out `ThemeProvider` with `ChakraProvider` to make setup cleaner.
`ChakraProvider` adds the following providers for you automatically:

- **ThemeProvider:** Provides the theming context for all components
- **ColorModeProvider:** Provides color mode (light or dark) context to all
  components
- **GlobalStyle**: Provides the global styles defined in `theme.styles.global`
  to your application.

Optionally via prop:

- **CSSReset**: To add the recommended `CSSReset`, pass `resetCSS` prop.
- **PortalManager:** Manages portals and nested portals without using `z-index`
  in your application. Pass the `portalZIndex` prop.

```diff
-  <ThemeProvider theme={theme}>
+    <ChakraProvider resetCSS theme={theme}>
-     <CSSReset />
      <App />
+    </ChakraProvider>
-  </ThemeProvider>
```

### 4. Rename `variantColor` to `colorScheme`

Fire up your "Find and Replace" tool in VSCode or IntelliJ. Find `variantColor`
and replace with `colorScheme`.

> **Reason:** We renamed this prop to make it easier to understand that this
> prop represents a visual color scheme, not a css color attribute.

### 5. Update layout `size` prop

Change `size` prop to `width` or `w` and `height`, or `h`. If you'd like to use
only one prop to manage this, you can rename it to `boxSize`.

```diff
- <Box size="40px" />
+ <Box w="40px" h="40px" />
# or
+ <Box boxSize="40px" />
```

**We strongly recommend using the `width` and `height` props**

> **Reason:** We think the `size` prop should only be used for component size
> modifiers. The `size` prop has caused a lot of confusion in the past because,
> in some components (e.g. Button), it means the visual size and in others (e.g
> Box), it means **width and height**.

---

## Component Updates

We've updated the API of some components to fix bugs and improve usability,
types and accessibility.

### Accordion

- Update all imports of `AccordionHeader` to `AccordionButton`. This is to
  remove the notion that it's a header when it's actually a `button`.

```diff
- import { AccordionHeader } from "@chakra-ui/core"
+ import { AccordionButton } from "@chakra-ui/core"
```

> WAI-ARIA guidelines require that accordion buttons be wrapped in the
> appropriate heading tag `h2-h6` based on the page heading flow.

We think the name `AccordionHeader` might mislead users to think we handle this
out of the box when we don't. Here's how to handle this:

```jsx live=false
<Accordion>
  <AccordionItem>
    <h3>
      <AccordionButton>This is the button</AccordionButton>
    </h3>
    <AccordionPanel>This is the content</AccordionPanel>
  </AccordionItem>
</Accordion>
```

- You can no longer use `AccordionItem` in isolation, it must be used within
  `Accordion`.

### AspectRatioBox

- Change all imports of `AspectRatioBox` to `AspectRatio`

```diff
- import { AspectRatioBox } from "@chakra-ui/core"
+ import  { AspectRatio } from "@chakra-ui/core"
```

### Breadcrumb

Removed support for the `addSeparator` prop

### Button

- We've unified the usage of all icon props to only accept a React element.
  Update all icon names used in `leftIcon` or `rightIcon` to the equivalent icon
  React element.

> Replacement logic: If `leftIcon` is `email`, then replace it with
> `<EmailIcon/>` from Chakra.

```diff
import { PhoneIcon } from "@chakra-ui/core"

- <Button leftIcon="phone">Call</Button>
+ <Button leftIcon={<PhoneIcon />}>Call</Button>
```

**This reduces the effort needed to use custom icons, eliminates TypeScript
errors, and reduces unused icons bloating your app.**

- Renamed `variantColor` to `colorScheme`

- Removed negative side margins on `leftIcon` and `rightIcon` elements. We
  believe the user should handle these side margins.
  [#1024](https://github.com/chakra-ui/chakra-ui/issues/1024)

### Checkbox

- Change `variantColor` to `colorScheme`

```diff
- <Checkbox variantColor="blue">Option</Checkbox>
+ <Checkbox colorScheme="blue">Option</Checkbox>
```

- Deprecated the `isFullWidth` prop. `Checkbox` now takes up the width of the
  parent by default.

- To allow for better checkbox group layout, the `CheckboxGroup` component no
  longer supports every style prop.

  You can now only pass `size`, `variant`, and `colorScheme` in addition to
  `CheckboxGroup`-specific props (`value`, `defaultValue`, and `onChange`).

```jsx live=false
// before
<CheckboxGroup isInline spacing="40px" defaultValue={["one", "two"]}>
  <Checkbox value="one">One</Checkbox>
  <Checkbox value="two">Two</Checkbox>
  <Checkbox value="three">Three</Checkbox>
</CheckboxGroup>

// after
<CheckboxGroup defaultValue={["one", "two"]}>
  <Stack spacing="40px">
    <Checkbox value="one">One</Checkbox>
    <Checkbox value="two">Two</Checkbox>
    <Checkbox value="three">Three</Checkbox>
  </Stack>
</CheckboxGroup>
```

> We believe a checkbox group's layout should be managed by your design
> requirements. The checkboxes can be grouped using `Stack`, placed in a grid
> using `SimpleGrid` or made to wrap automatically using `Wrap`.

### ColorMode

- Color mode now persists correctly when you refresh the page. All you need to
  do is add `ColorModeScript` script as the first child of `body`.

  Here's how to add it for Next.js:

```jsx live=false
// pages/_document.js
import { ColorModeScript } from "@chakra-ui/core"

export default class Document extends NextDocument {
  static async getInitialProps(ctx) {
    const initialProps = await NextDocument.getInitialProps(ctx)
    return { ...initialProps }
  }

  render() {
    return (
      <Html>
        <Head />
        <body>
          {/* 👇 Here's the script */}
          <ColorModeScript />
          <Main />
          <NextScript />
        </body>
      </Html>
    )
  }
}
```

Here's how to add it for Gatsby:

```jsx live=false
// gatsby-ssr.js
export const onRenderBody = ({ setPreBodyComponents }) => {
  setPreBodyComponents([<ColorModeScript key="chakra-ui-no-flash" />])
}
```

You can also install the
[`gatsby-plugin-chakra-ui`](https://www.npmjs.com/package/gatsby-plugin-chakra-ui)
package which automatically configures `ColorModeScript` along with
`ChakraProvider`.

### Editable

The `onRequestEdit` prop has been renamed to `onEdit`. This applies to both the
prop passed to `Editable` as well as the prop in its render props.

### Icons

- Basic interface icons provided by Chakra have moved to the `icons` package.
  Replace all `<Icon name="..." />` elements imported from `core` with
  equivalent _named_ icon React elements imported from `icons`.

  > Replacement logic: If `<Icon name="search" />` is used, then replace it with
  > `<SearchIcon />` from Chakra icons package.

```diff
- import { Icon } from "@chakra-ui/core"
- <Icon name="search" />
+ import { SearchIcon } from "@chakra-ui/icons"
+ <SearchIcon />
```

Existing icons will appear as a question mark until refactored.

- We changed the way custom icons are created. Instead of adding custom icons to
  `theme` create your own icons using the `createIcon` utility:

```jsx live=false
import { createIcon } from "@chakra-ui/icon"
export const UpDownIcon = createIcon({
  displayName: "UpDownIcon",
  viewBox: "-1 -1 9 11",
  d:
    "M 3.5 0L 3.98809 -0.569442L 3.5 -0.987808L 3.01191 -0.569442L 3.5 0ZM 3.5 9L 3.01191 9.56944L 3.5 9.98781L 3.98809 9.56944L 3.5 9ZM 0.488094 3.56944L 3.98809 0.569442L 3.01191 -0.569442L -0.488094 2.43056L 0.488094 3.56944ZM 3.01191 0.569442L 6.51191 3.56944L 7.48809 2.43056L 3.98809 -0.569442L 3.01191 0.569442ZM -0.488094 6.56944L 3.01191 9.56944L 3.98809 8.43056L 0.488094 5.43056L -0.488094 6.56944ZM 3.98809 9.56944L 7.48809 6.56944L 6.51191 5.43056L 3.01191 8.43056L 3.98809 9.56944Z",
})
```

As a convenience you can also import `createIcon` from the `icons` package along
with other icons:

```jsx live=false
import { createIcon, MoonIcon, SunIcon } from "@chakra-ui/icons"
```

### Icon Button

- We've unified the usage of all icon props to only accept a React element.
  Update all icon names used in `icon` to the equivalent icon React element.

> Replacement logic: If `icon` is `email`, then replace it with `<EmailIcon/>`
> from Chakra.

```diff
import { PhoneIcon } from "@chakra-ui/core"

- <IconButton icon="phone">Call</IconButton>
+ <IconButton icon={<PhoneIcon />}>Call</IconButton>
```

**This reduces the effort needed to use custom icons, eliminates TypeScript
errors, and reduces unused icons bloating your app.**

- Renamed `variantColor` to `colorScheme`

### Skeleton

Renamed `colorStart` and `colorEnd` props to `startColor` and `endColor`
respectively.

### Image

Resolved SSR issue with Next.js. If you still run into issues, we recommend
using the `Img` component which is a regular `img` tag with support for Chakra
props.

### Input

- When using `InputAddon`, you no longer need to pass border radius properties
  to the `Input`. `InputGroup` will intelligently detect the addon and apply the
  necessary border to the input.

### Link

Due to accessibility reasons, we've deprecated the `isDisabled` prop for `Link`.

### Stack

- To reduce the API surface area, we've deprecated the `isReversed` props in
  favor of the `direction` prop

```diff
- <Stack isReversed>
+ <Stack direction="row-reverse">
    <Box />
    <Box />
  </Stack>
```

- Added support for responsive `direction` and `spacing` props

```jsx live=false
<Stack direction={["column", "row"]}>
  <Box />
  <Box />
</Stack>
```

### Menu

- All popper related props that used to be passed to `MenuList` component,
  should now be passed to `Menu`. Reason: To support nested menus
- The `placement` prop has moved from `MenuList` to `Menu`

### Modal

- Removed `addAriaLabels` and `formatIds` props in favor of passing a top-level
  `id` prop to the modal, and we'll handle the rest.

- Removed `preserveScrollBarGap` prop. We preserve scroll bar gap by default to
  prevent any layout shift.

- Wrap `ModalContent` with the `ModalOverlay` component.

```diff
// before
<Modal>
-  <ModalOverlay />
  <ModalContent>
    <ModalHeader>Modal header</ModalHeader>
    <ModalCloseButton />
    <ModalBody>Modal body</ModalBody>
    <ModalFooter>Modal footer</ModalFooter>
  </ModalContent>
</Modal>

// after
<Modal>
+  <ModalOverlay>
    <ModalContent>
      <ModalHeader>Modal header</ModalHeader>
      <ModalCloseButton />
      <ModalBody>Modal body</ModalBody>
      <ModalFooter>Modal footer</ModalFooter>
    </ModalContent>
+  </ModalOverlay>
</Modal>
```

- Only pass `size` values defined in the components theme. Hard-coded values
  will be ignored. Update the styles in `theme.components.Modal` to reflect your
  custom values

- You can now disable focus trap by passing `trapFocus={false}`

- The `SlideIn` and `Scale` transition components have been replaced with the
  `Fade`, `ScaleFade`, `Slide`, and `SlideFade` components.

### Progress

- Change `color` prop to `colorScheme`.

```diff
- <Progress color="blue"/>
+ <Progress colorScheme="blue"/>
```

### CircularProgress

- `trackColor` prop now takes a specific theme color or a valid `css` color.
- Change the `thickness` prop to point to an actual thickness value in `px`
  (e.g. `thickness={4}`)

### Radio

- Change `variantColor` prop to `colorScheme`.

```diff
- <Radio variantColor="blue">Option</Radio>
+ <Radio colorScheme="blue">Option</Radio>
```

- Deprecated the `isFullWidth` prop. The `Radio` takes up the width of the
  parent by default.

- Deprecated the `RadioButton` component. Use the `useRadio` hook to create
  custom radio buttons. Learn more about
  [creating custom radio buttons](/docs/form/radio#custom-radio-buttons).

- The `useRadio` hook is exported with state and focus management logic for use
  in creating tailor-made radio component for your application

### RadioGroup

- Deprecated the `isFullWidth` prop. The `RadioGroup` takes up the width of the
  parent by default.

- Deprecated the `RadioButtonGroup` component. Use the `useRadioGroup` hook to
  control a group of custom radio buttons. Learn more about
  [creating custom radio buttons](/docs/form/radio#custom-radio-buttons).

- To allow for better Radio group layout, the `RadioGroup` component no longer
  supports every style prop. You can only pass `size`, `variant`, and
  `colorScheme` in addition to `RadioGroup` props (`value`, `defaultValue`, and
  `onChange`).

```jsx live=false
// before
<RadioGroup isInline defaultValue="one">
  <Radio value="one">One</Radio>
  <Radio value="two">Two</Radio>
  <Radio value="three">Three</Radio>
</RadioGroup>

// after
<RadioGroup defaultValue="one">
  <Stack direction="row">
    <Radio value="one">One</Radio>
    <Radio value="two">Two</Radio>
    <Radio value="three">Three</Radio>
  </Stack>
</RadioGroup>
```

## Slider

- Update JSX structure: Wrap `SliderFilledTrack` with `SliderTrack`.

```jsx live=false
// before
<Slider defaultValue={30}>
  <SliderTrack />
  <SliderFilledTrack />
  <SliderThumb />
</Slider>

// after
<Slider defaultValue={30}>
  <SliderTrack>
    <SliderFilledTrack />
  </SliderTrack>
  <SliderThumb />
</Slider>
```

### Popover

- `returnFocusOnClose` has been changed to `returnFocus` for conciseness.

- `autoFocus` prop to allow users to control whether the popover should
  automatically receive focus when it opens.

### Switch

Rename the `color` prop to `colorScheme`

```diff
-  <Switch color="blue"/>
+  <Switch colorScheme="blue"/>
```

### Tabs

Change `variantColor` prop to `colorScheme`

### Tags

- Change `variantColor` to `colorScheme`

```diff
- <Tag variantColor="blue"/>
+ <Tag colorScheme="blue"/>
```

- Added support for `isDisabled` prop on the `TagCloseButton` component

```jsx live=false
<Tag variant="solid" size="sm" colorScheme="cyan">
  <TagLabel>Tab Label</TagLabel>
  <TagCloseButton isDisabled />
</Tag>
```

- Default size was changed to `md` instead of `lg`

### Toast

- Removed `react-spring` dependency in favor of `react-transition-group`
- Added support for duplicate toast prevention using `toast.isActive` method
- Added support to programmatically close one or all toasts using `toast.close`
  or `toast.closeAll` methods
- Added support to programmatically update a toast using `toast.update` method.
- Added support for `onCloseComplete` prop, a callback function to run side
  effects after the toast component has closed.

### CSS Reset

- Deprecated support for `config` prop, in favor of reading global styles from
  `theme.styles.global`
- Added global style for `focus-visible` in event you need to remove focus
  styles for non-keyboard interactions.

```bash
# as a dependency
yarn add focus-visible

# at the root of your application
import "focus-visible/dist/focus-visible"
```

**That's it! Welcome to Chakra UI v1.**

> If you still experience issues after migrating, feel free to create an issue
> or join our Discord chat here: https://discord.gg/dQHfcWF

Commit message:

docs: add guide for as prop and custom components

website/pages/docs/migration.mdx, after:

---
title: Upgrading from v0.x to v1.x
description: How to upgrade your existing Chakra UI projects to v1.0
---

A simple guide to upgrade your existing Chakra UI projects to v1.0.

Chakra UI v1.0 is focused on improving the ideas and concepts from 0.x to make
even easier to create, theme and extend components.

While there's quite a number of new features we've added, we focused on making
Chakra UI a stable base to build your own design systems on top of. In the end,
we want make you feel more confident using Chakra UI in production.

---

## Highlights

**Theming API:** Chakra UI now provides a new theming API which makes it easy to
style components and their modifiers (sizes, variants, and color scheme) from
your theme.

**Color mode improvement:** We've fixed the bugs related to Color mode and made
it possible to persist color mode, set initial color mode, and lock specific
components to a certain color mode.

**Better TypeScript support:** This means all components have very good
TypeScript support and most low-level components like `Box`, `Flex` will support
the `as` prop and types will be extracted properly.

**Theme-aware sx prop:** Just like `theme-ui`, we've added support for the `sx`
prop to help you add theme-aware styles directly on any Chakra component. This
is useful if you're not a fan of style props, and prefer passing all styles in
one object.

**Deprecated PseudoBox:** We've removed `PseudoBox` and merged all it's props
with `Box` so you can use pseudo style props, like `_hover`, `_active` in any
Chakra components.

---

## Upgrade steps

Here's a list of steps to take in order to migrate your project safely. Don't
worry if your styles aren't exactly the same — this is to be expected.

### 1. Update your dependencies

Chakra no longer requires `@emotion/core`, `@emotion/styled` and
`emotion-theming` peer dependencies. If you're not using these libraries in your
code, you can safely remove them and update Chakra UI to v1.

```diff
"dependencies": {
  "@chakra-ui/core": "next",
-  "@emotion/core": "10.x",
-  "@emotion/styled": "10.X",
-  "emotion-theming": "10.x"
}
```

> Please note that when using Chakra UI in a TypeScript project, a minimum
> TypeScript version of `3.8.0` is required.

#### Notes on Icons

Chakra moved all icons to a separate package `@chakra-ui/icons`. We recommend
using `react-icons` in your projects considering it has a robust set of icons.
However, you can still install this package.

### 2. Update the ThemeProvider

Swap out `ThemeProvider` with `ChakraProvider` to make setup cleaner.
`ChakraProvider` adds the following providers for you automatically:

- **ThemeProvider:** Provides the theming context for all components
- **ColorModeProvider:** Provides color mode (light or dark) context to all
  components
- **GlobalStyle**: Provides the global styles defined in `theme.styles.global`
  to your application.

Optionally via prop:

- **CSSReset**: To add the recommended `CSSReset`, pass `resetCSS` prop.
- **PortalManager:** Manages portals and nested portals without using `z-index`
  in your application. Pass the `portalZIndex` prop.

```diff
-  <ThemeProvider theme={theme}>
+    <ChakraProvider resetCSS theme={theme}>
-     <CSSReset />
      <App />
+    </ChakraProvider>
-  </ThemeProvider>
```

### 4. Rename `variantColor` to `colorScheme`

Fire up your "Find and Replace" tool in VSCode or IntelliJ. Find `variantColor`
and replace with `colorScheme`.

> **Reason:** We renamed this prop to make it easier to understand that this
> prop represents a visual color scheme, not a css color attribute.

### 5. Update layout `size` prop

Change `size` prop to `width` or `w` and `height`, or `h`. If you'd like to use
only one prop to manage this, you can rename it to `boxSize`.

```diff
- <Box size="40px" />
+ <Box w="40px" h="40px" />
# or
+ <Box boxSize="40px" />
```

**We strongly recommend using the `width` and `height` props**

> **Reason:** We think the `size` prop should only be used for component size
> modifiers. The `size` prop has caused a lot of confusion in the past because,
> in some components (e.g. Button), it means the visual size and in others (e.g
> Box), it means **width and height**.

---

## Component Updates

We've updated the API of some components to fix bugs and improve usability,
types and accessibility.

### Accordion

- Update all imports of `AccordionHeader` to `AccordionButton`. This is to
  remove the notion that it's a header when it's actually a `button`.

```diff
- import { AccordionHeader } from "@chakra-ui/core"
+ import { AccordionButton } from "@chakra-ui/core"
```

> WAI-ARIA guidelines require that accordion buttons be wrapped in the
> appropriate heading tag `h2-h6` based on the page heading flow.

We think the name `AccordionHeader` might mislead users to think we handle this
out of the box when we don't. Here's how to handle this:

```jsx live=false
<Accordion>
  <AccordionItem>
    <h3>
      <AccordionButton>This is the button</AccordionButton>
    </h3>
    <AccordionPanel>This is the content</AccordionPanel>
  </AccordionItem>
</Accordion>
```

- You can no longer use `AccordionItem` in isolation, it must be used within
  `Accordion`.

### AspectRatioBox

- Change all imports of `AspectRatioBox` to `AspectRatio`

```diff
- import { AspectRatioBox } from "@chakra-ui/core"
+ import  { AspectRatio } from "@chakra-ui/core"
```

### Breadcrumb

Removed support for the `addSeparator` prop

### Button

- We've unified the usage of all icon props to only accept a React element.
  Update all icon names used in `leftIcon` or `rightIcon` to the equivalent icon
  React element.

> Replacement logic: If `leftIcon` is `email`, then replace it with
> `<EmailIcon/>` from Chakra.

```diff
import { PhoneIcon } from "@chakra-ui/core"

- <Button leftIcon="phone">Call</Button>
+ <Button leftIcon={<PhoneIcon />}>Call</Button>
```

**This reduces the effort needed to use custom icons, eliminates TypeScript
errors, and reduces unused icons bloating your app.**

- Renamed `variantColor` to `colorScheme`

- Removed negative side margins on `leftIcon` and `rightIcon` elements. We
  believe the user should handle these side margins.
  [#1024](https://github.com/chakra-ui/chakra-ui/issues/1024)

### Checkbox

- Change `variantColor` to `colorScheme`

```diff
- <Checkbox variantColor="blue">Option</Checkbox>
+ <Checkbox colorScheme="blue">Option</Checkbox>
```

- Deprecated the `isFullWidth` prop. `Checkbox` now takes up the width of the
  parent by default.

- To allow for better checkbox group layout, the `CheckboxGroup` component no
  longer supports every style prop.

  You can now only pass `size`, `variant`, and `colorScheme` in addition to
  `CheckboxGroup`-specific props (`value`, `defaultValue`, and `onChange`).

```jsx live=false
// before
<CheckboxGroup isInline spacing="40px" defaultValue={["one", "two"]}>
  <Checkbox value="one">One</Checkbox>
  <Checkbox value="two">Two</Checkbox>
  <Checkbox value="three">Three</Checkbox>
</CheckboxGroup>

// after
<CheckboxGroup defaultValue={["one", "two"]}>
  <Stack spacing="40px">
    <Checkbox value="one">One</Checkbox>
    <Checkbox value="two">Two</Checkbox>
    <Checkbox value="three">Three</Checkbox>
  </Stack>
</CheckboxGroup>
```

> We believe a checkbox group's layout should be managed by your design
> requirements. The checkboxes can be grouped using `Stack`, placed in a grid
> using `SimpleGrid` or made to wrap automatically using `Wrap`.

### ColorMode

- Color mode now persists correctly when you refresh the page. All you need to
  do is add `ColorModeScript` script as the first child of `body`.

  Here's how to add it for Next.js:

```jsx live=false
// pages/_document.js
import { ColorModeScript } from "@chakra-ui/core"

export default class Document extends NextDocument {
  static async getInitialProps(ctx) {
    const initialProps = await NextDocument.getInitialProps(ctx)
    return { ...initialProps }
  }

  render() {
    return (
      <Html>
        <Head />
        <body>
          {/* 👇 Here's the script */}
          <ColorModeScript />
          <Main />
          <NextScript />
        </body>
      </Html>
    )
  }
}
```

Here's how to add it for Gatsby:

```jsx live=false
// gatsby-ssr.js
export const onRenderBody = ({ setPreBodyComponents }) => {
  setPreBodyComponents([<ColorModeScript key="chakra-ui-no-flash" />])
}
```

You can also install the
[`gatsby-plugin-chakra-ui`](https://www.npmjs.com/package/gatsby-plugin-chakra-ui)
package which automatically configures `ColorModeScript` along with
`ChakraProvider`.

### Editable

The `onRequestEdit` prop has been renamed to `onEdit`. This applies to both the
prop passed to `Editable` as well as the prop in its render props.

### Icons

- Basic interface icons provided by Chakra have moved to the `icons` package.
  Replace all `<Icon name="..." />` elements imported from `core` with
  equivalent _named_ icon React elements imported from `icons`.

  > Replacement logic: If `<Icon name="search" />` is used, then replace it with
  > `<SearchIcon />` from Chakra icons package.

```diff
- import { Icon } from "@chakra-ui/core"
- <Icon name="search" />
+ import { SearchIcon } from "@chakra-ui/icons"
+ <SearchIcon />
```

Existing icons will appear as a question mark until refactored.

- We changed the way custom icons are created. Instead of adding custom icons to
  `theme` create your own icons using the `createIcon` utility:

```jsx live=false
import { createIcon } from "@chakra-ui/icon"
export const UpDownIcon = createIcon({
  displayName: "UpDownIcon",
  viewBox: "-1 -1 9 11",
  d:
    "M 3.5 0L 3.98809 -0.569442L 3.5 -0.987808L 3.01191 -0.569442L 3.5 0ZM 3.5 9L 3.01191 9.56944L 3.5 9.98781L 3.98809 9.56944L 3.5 9ZM 0.488094 3.56944L 3.98809 0.569442L 3.01191 -0.569442L -0.488094 2.43056L 0.488094 3.56944ZM 3.01191 0.569442L 6.51191 3.56944L 7.48809 2.43056L 3.98809 -0.569442L 3.01191 0.569442ZM -0.488094 6.56944L 3.01191 9.56944L 3.98809 8.43056L 0.488094 5.43056L -0.488094 6.56944ZM 3.98809 9.56944L 7.48809 6.56944L 6.51191 5.43056L 3.01191 8.43056L 3.98809 9.56944Z",
})
```

As a convenience you can also import `createIcon` from the `icons` package along
with other icons:

```jsx live=false
import { createIcon, MoonIcon, SunIcon } from "@chakra-ui/icons"
```

### Icon Button

- We've unified the usage of all icon props to only accept a React element.
  Update all icon names used in `icon` to the equivalent icon React element.

> Replacement logic: If `icon` is `email`, then replace it with `<EmailIcon/>`
> from Chakra.

```diff
import { PhoneIcon } from "@chakra-ui/core"

- <IconButton icon="phone">Call</IconButton>
+ <IconButton icon={<PhoneIcon />}>Call</IconButton>
```

**This reduces the effort needed to use custom icons, eliminates TypeScript
errors, and reduces unused icons bloating your app.**

- Renamed `variantColor` to `colorScheme`

### Skeleton

Renamed `colorStart` and `colorEnd` props to `startColor` and `endColor`
respectively.

### Image

Resolved SSR issue with Next.js. If you still run into issues, we recommend
using the `Img` component which is a regular `img` tag with support for Chakra
props.

### Input

- When using `InputAddon`, you no longer need to pass border radius properties
  to the `Input`. `InputGroup` will intelligently detect the addon and apply the
  necessary border to the input.

### Link

Due to accessibility reasons, we've deprecated the `isDisabled` prop for `Link`.

### Stack

- To reduce the API surface area, we've deprecated the `isReversed` props in
  favor of the `direction` prop

```diff
- <Stack isReversed>
+ <Stack direction="row-reverse">
    <Box />
    <Box />
  </Stack>
```

- Added support for responsive `direction` and `spacing` props

```jsx live=false
<Stack direction={["column", "row"]}>
  <Box />
  <Box />
</Stack>
```

### Menu

- All popper related props that used to be passed to `MenuList` component,
  should now be passed to `Menu`. Reason: To support nested menus
- The `placement` prop has moved from `MenuList` to `Menu`

### Modal

- Removed `addAriaLabels` and `formatIds` props in favor of passing a top-level
  `id` prop to the modal, and we'll handle the rest.

- Removed `preserveScrollBarGap` prop. We preserve scroll bar gap by default to
  prevent any layout shift.

- Wrap `ModalContent` with the `ModalOverlay` component.

```diff
// before
<Modal>
-  <ModalOverlay />
  <ModalContent>
    <ModalHeader>Modal header</ModalHeader>
    <ModalCloseButton />
    <ModalBody>Modal body</ModalBody>
    <ModalFooter>Modal footer</ModalFooter>
  </ModalContent>
</Modal>

// after
<Modal>
+  <ModalOverlay>
    <ModalContent>
      <ModalHeader>Modal header</ModalHeader>
      <ModalCloseButton />
      <ModalBody>Modal body</ModalBody>
      <ModalFooter>Modal footer</ModalFooter>
    </ModalContent>
+  </ModalOverlay>
</Modal>
```

- Only pass `size` values defined in the components theme. Hard-coded values
  will be ignored. Update the styles in `theme.components.Modal` to reflect your
  custom values

- You can now disable focus trap by passing `trapFocus={false}`

- The `SlideIn` and `Scale` transition components have been replaced with the
  `Fade`, `ScaleFade`, `Slide`, and `SlideFade` components.

### Progress

- Change `color` prop to `colorScheme`.

```diff
- <Progress color="blue"/>
+ <Progress colorScheme="blue"/>
```

- Added Support for `isIndeterminate` prop in the `Progress` component

### CircularProgress

- `trackColor` prop now takes a specific theme color or a valid `css` color.
- Change the `thickness` prop to point to an actual thickness value in `px`
  (e.g. `thickness={4}`)

### Radio

- Change `variantColor` prop to `colorScheme`.

```diff
- <Radio variantColor="blue">Option</Radio>
+ <Radio colorScheme="blue">Option</Radio>
```

- Deprecated the `isFullWidth` prop. The `Radio` takes up the width of the
  parent by default.

- Deprecated the `RadioButton` component. Use the `useRadio` hook to create
  custom radio buttons. Learn more about
  [creating custom radio buttons](/docs/form/radio#custom-radio-buttons).

- The `useRadio` hook is exported with state and focus management logic for use
  in creating tailor-made radio component for your application

### RadioGroup

- Deprecated the `isFullWidth` prop. The `RadioGroup` takes up the width of the
  parent by default.

- Deprecated the `RadioButtonGroup` component. Use the `useRadioGroup` hook to
  control a group of custom radio buttons. Learn more about
  [creating custom radio buttons](/docs/form/radio#custom-radio-buttons).

- To allow for better Radio group layout, the `RadioGroup` component no longer
  supports every style prop. You can only pass `size`, `variant`, and
  `colorScheme` in addition to `RadioGroup` props (`value`, `defaultValue`, and
  `onChange`).

```jsx live=false
// before
<RadioGroup isInline defaultValue="one">
  <Radio value="one">One</Radio>
  <Radio value="two">Two</Radio>
  <Radio value="three">Three</Radio>
</RadioGroup>

// after
<RadioGroup defaultValue="one">
  <Stack direction="row">
    <Radio value="one">One</Radio>
    <Radio value="two">Two</Radio>
    <Radio value="three">Three</Radio>
  </Stack>
</RadioGroup>
```

## Slider

- Update JSX structure: Wrap `SliderFilledTrack` with `SliderTrack`.

```jsx live=false
// before
<Slider defaultValue={30}>
  <SliderTrack />
  <SliderFilledTrack />
  <SliderThumb />
</Slider>

// after
<Slider defaultValue={30}>
  <SliderTrack>
    <SliderFilledTrack />
  </SliderTrack>
  <SliderThumb />
</Slider>
```

### Popover

- `returnFocusOnClose` has been changed to `returnFocus` for conciseness.

- `autoFocus` prop to allow users to control whether the popover should
  automatically receive focus when it opens.

### Switch

Rename the `color` prop to `colorScheme`

```diff
-  <Switch color="blue"/>
+  <Switch colorScheme="blue"/>
```

### Tabs

Change `variantColor` prop to `colorScheme`

### Tags

- Change `variantColor` to `colorScheme`

```diff
- <Tag variantColor="blue"/>
+ <Tag colorScheme="blue"/>
```

- Added support for `isDisabled` prop on the `TagCloseButton` component

```jsx live=false
<Tag variant="solid" size="sm" colorScheme="cyan">
  <TagLabel>Tab Label</TagLabel>
  <TagCloseButton isDisabled />
</Tag>
```

- Default size was changed to `md` instead of `lg`

### Toast

- Removed `react-spring` dependency in favor of `react-transition-group`
- Added support for duplicate toast prevention using `toast.isActive` method
- Added support to programmatically close one or all toasts using `toast.close`
  or `toast.closeAll` methods
- Added support to programmatically update a toast using `toast.update` method.
- Added support for `onCloseComplete` prop, a callback function to run side
  effects after the toast component has closed.

### CSS Reset

- Deprecated support for `config` prop, in favor of reading global styles from
  `theme.styles.global`
- Added global style for `focus-visible` in event you need to remove focus
  styles for non-keyboard interactions.

```bash
# as a dependency
yarn add focus-visible

# at the root of your application
import "focus-visible/dist/focus-visible"
```

**That's it! Welcome to Chakra UI v1.**

> If you still experience issues after migrating, feel free to create an issue
> or join our Discord chat here: https://discord.gg/dQHfcWF
