website/pages/docs/theming/customize-theme.mdx, before:

---
title: Customize Theme
description: How to modify Chakra UI's default theme
---

By default, all Chakra components inherit values from the default theme. In some
scenarios, you might need to customize the default theme to match your design
requirements. You have a few different options depending on your goals.

- Customize the theme tokens like colors, font sizes, line heights, etc.
- Customize the component styles, changing the base styles, sizes, or variants.
- Customize the global styles.

## Customizing theme tokens

To extend or override a token in the default theme, import the `extendTheme`
function and add the keys you'd like to override. You can also add new values to
the theme.

For example, if you'd like to update the colors in the theme to include your
brand colors, here's what you'll do:

```jsx live=false
// 1. Import `extendTheme`
import { extendTheme } from "@chakra-ui/core"

// 2. Call `extendTheme` and pass your custom values
const theme = extendTheme({
  colors: {
    brand: {
      100: "#f7fafc",
      // ...
      900: "#1a202c",
    },
  },
})

// 3. Now you can use these colors in your components
function Usage() {
  return <Box bg="brand.100">Welcome</Box>
}
```

> If you're curious as to what theme styles you can override, please reference the
> [default theme foundation style files](https://github.com/chakra-ui/chakra-ui/tree/master/packages/theme/src/foundations).

## Customizing component styles

Chakra has a specific approach or API for styling components. The main idea is
most components have default or base styles (`baseStyle`), styles for different
sizes (`sizes`), and styles for different visual variants (`variants`).

It's important to understand this so you can override any component style
effectively.

> You're not limited to the component styles that Chakra provides, you can also
> create your own custom component styles.
> [Learn more](/docs/theming/component-style).

### Customizing single components

As we mentioned earlier, a component style consists of `baseStyles`, `sizes`,
`variants` and an optional `defaultProps` to denote the default `size` or
`variant`.

Here's what the component style object looks like:

```jsx live=false
const ComponentStyle = {
  // style object for base or default style
  baseStyle: {},
  // styles for different sizes ("sm", "md", "lg")
  sizes: {},
  // styles for different visual variants ("outline", "solid")
  variants: {},
  // default values for `size` and `variant`
  defaultProps: {
    size: "",
    variant: "",
  },
}
```

For example, let's override the component styles for Chakra's Button component.

```jsx live=false
// theme.js
import { extendTheme } from "@chakra-ui/core"

const theme = extendTheme({
  components: {
    Button: {
      // 1. We can update the base styles
      baseStyle: {
        fontWeight: "bold", // Normally, it's "semibold"
      },
      // 2. We can add a new button size or extend existing
      sizes: {
        xl: {
          h: "56px",
          fontSize: "lg",
          px: "32px",
        },
      },
      // 3. We can add a new visual variant
      variants: {
        "with-shadow": {
          bg: "red.400",
          boxShadow: "0 0 2px 2px #efdfde",
        },
        // 4. We can override existing variants
        solid: (props) => ({
          bg: "red.400",
        }),
      },
    },
  },
})

export default theme
```

That's it! When you use the Button from Chakra, these updates will be
automatically applied.

```jsx live=false
<Button size="xl" variant="with-shadow">
  Welcome
</Button>
```

> If you're curious as to what component styles you can override, please reference the
> [default component style files](https://github.com/chakra-ui/chakra-ui/tree/master/packages/theme/src/components).

### Customizing global styles

Global styles are theme-aware styles you can apply to any html element
globally.

To add global styles, update the `theme.styles.global` key in the theme. Global
styles can be a style object or a function that returns a style object.

```jsx live=false
// theme.js
import { extendTheme } from "@chakra-ui/core"
import { mode } from "@chakra-ui/theme-tools"

// Version 1: Using objects
const theme = extendTheme({
  styles: {
    global: {
      // styles for the `body`
      body: {
        bg: "gray.400",
        color: "white",
      },
      // styles for the `a`
      a: {
        color: "teal.500",
        _hover: {
          textDecoration: "underline",
        },
      },
    },
  },
})

// Version 2: Using functions
const overrides = extendTheme({
  styles: {
    global: (props) => ({
      body: {
        fontFamily: "body",
        color: mode("gray.800", "whiteAlpha.900")(props),
        bg: mode("white", "gray.800")(props),
        lineHeight: "base",
      },
    }),
  },
})
```

## Scaling out your project

As your project grows in size, it's best to keep things organized. We highly
suggest that instead of using a single `theme.js` (or `theme.ts`) file, you
create a `/theme` folder in its place. Inside this folder, you could have a
directory structure that looks like this:

```bash
/theme
  - index.js  # my main theme entrypoint
  - styles.js  # all my global style overrides
  /foundations
    - borders.js  # all my border overrides
  /components
    - button.js  # all my button overrides
```

This way, you can structure your main theme entrypoint file to be much cleaner,
like this:

```jsx live=false
// theme.js
import { extendTheme } from "@chakra-ui/core"

// Global style overrides
import styles from "./styles"

// Foundational style overrides
import borders from "./foundations/borders"

// Component style overrides
import Button from "./components/button"

const overrides = {
  styles,
  borders,
  // Other foundational style overrides go here
  components: {
    Button,
    // Other components go here
  },
}

export default extendTheme(overrides)
```

None of these is strictly required to use Chakra - but we've learned some hard
lessons on the "right" way and the "wrong" way to write styles. The above is our
best suggestion on how to write style overrides and organize your custom theme.

---

[In the next section](/docs/theming/component-style), we'll show some examples
of how to create custom component styles and use them in your components!

Commit message:

docs: updates to it's vs its grammar

website/pages/docs/theming/customize-theme.mdx, after:

---
title: Customize Theme
description: How to modify Chakra UI's default theme
---

By default, all Chakra components inherit values from the default theme. In some
scenarios, you might need to customize the default theme to match your design
requirements. You have a few different options depending on your goals.

- Customize the theme tokens like colors, font sizes, line heights, etc.
- Customize the component styles, changing the base styles, sizes, or variants.
- Customize the global styles.

## Customizing theme tokens

To extend or override a token in the default theme, import the `extendTheme`
function and add the keys you'd like to override. You can also add new values to
the theme.

For example, if you'd like to update the colors in the theme to include your
brand colors, here's what you'll do:

```jsx live=false
// 1. Import `extendTheme`
import { extendTheme } from "@chakra-ui/core"

// 2. Call `extendTheme` and pass your custom values
const theme = extendTheme({
  colors: {
    brand: {
      100: "#f7fafc",
      // ...
      900: "#1a202c",
    },
  },
})

// 3. Now you can use these colors in your components
function Usage() {
  return <Box bg="brand.100">Welcome</Box>
}
```

> If you're curious as to what theme styles you can override, please reference
> the
> [default theme foundation style files](https://github.com/chakra-ui/chakra-ui/tree/master/packages/theme/src/foundations).

## Customizing component styles

Chakra has a specific approach or API for styling components. The main idea is
most components have default or base styles (`baseStyle`), styles for different
sizes (`sizes`), and styles for different visual variants (`variants`).

It is important to understand this so you can override any component style
effectively.

> You're not limited to the component styles that Chakra provides, you can also
> create your own custom component styles.
> [Learn more](/docs/theming/component-style).

### Customizing single components

As we mentioned earlier, a component style consists of `baseStyles`, `sizes`,
`variants` and an optional `defaultProps` to denote the default `size` or
`variant`.

Here's what the component style object looks like:

```jsx live=false
const ComponentStyle = {
  // style object for base or default style
  baseStyle: {},
  // styles for different sizes ("sm", "md", "lg")
  sizes: {},
  // styles for different visual variants ("outline", "solid")
  variants: {},
  // default values for `size` and `variant`
  defaultProps: {
    size: "",
    variant: "",
  },
}
```

For example, let's override the component styles for Chakra's Button component.

```jsx live=false
// theme.js
import { extendTheme } from "@chakra-ui/core"

const theme = extendTheme({
  components: {
    Button: {
      // 1. We can update the base styles
      baseStyle: {
        fontWeight: "bold", // Normally, it is "semibold"
      },
      // 2. We can add a new button size or extend existing
      sizes: {
        xl: {
          h: "56px",
          fontSize: "lg",
          px: "32px",
        },
      },
      // 3. We can add a new visual variant
      variants: {
        "with-shadow": {
          bg: "red.400",
          boxShadow: "0 0 2px 2px #efdfde",
        },
        // 4. We can override existing variants
        solid: (props) => ({
          bg: "red.400",
        }),
      },
    },
  },
})

export default theme
```

That's it! When you use the Button from Chakra, these updates will be
automatically applied.

```jsx live=false
<Button size="xl" variant="with-shadow">
  Welcome
</Button>
```

> If you're curious as to what component styles you can override, please
> reference the
> [default component style files](https://github.com/chakra-ui/chakra-ui/tree/master/packages/theme/src/components).

### Customizing global styles

Global styles are theme-aware styles you can apply to any html element globally.

To add global styles, update the `theme.styles.global` key in the theme. Global
styles can be a style object or a function that returns a style object.

```jsx live=false
// theme.js
import { extendTheme } from "@chakra-ui/core"
import { mode } from "@chakra-ui/theme-tools"

// Version 1: Using objects
const theme = extendTheme({
  styles: {
    global: {
      // styles for the `body`
      body: {
        bg: "gray.400",
        color: "white",
      },
      // styles for the `a`
      a: {
        color: "teal.500",
        _hover: {
          textDecoration: "underline",
        },
      },
    },
  },
})

// Version 2: Using functions
const overrides = extendTheme({
  styles: {
    global: (props) => ({
      body: {
        fontFamily: "body",
        color: mode("gray.800", "whiteAlpha.900")(props),
        bg: mode("white", "gray.800")(props),
        lineHeight: "base",
      },
    }),
  },
})
```

## Scaling out your project

As your project grows in size, it is best to keep things organized. We highly
suggest that instead of using a single `theme.js` (or `theme.ts`) file, you
create a `/theme` folder in its place. Inside this folder, you could have a
directory structure that looks like this:

```bash
/theme
  - index.js  # my main theme entrypoint
  - styles.js  # all my global style overrides
  /foundations
    - borders.js  # all my border overrides
  /components
    - button.js  # all my button overrides
```

This way, you can structure your main theme entrypoint file to be much cleaner,
like this:

```jsx live=false
// theme.js
import { extendTheme } from "@chakra-ui/core"

// Global style overrides
import styles from "./styles"

// Foundational style overrides
import borders from "./foundations/borders"

// Component style overrides
import Button from "./components/button"

const overrides = {
  styles,
  borders,
  // Other foundational style overrides go here
  components: {
    Button,
    // Other components go here
  },
}

export default extendTheme(overrides)
```

None of these is strictly required to use Chakra - but we've learned some hard
lessons on the "right" way and the "wrong" way to write styles. The above is our
best suggestion on how to write style overrides and organize your custom theme.

---

[In the next section](/docs/theming/component-style), we'll show some examples
of how to create custom component styles and use them in your components!
