packages/chakra-ui-docs/pages/alertdialog.mdx, before:

# Alert Dialog

AlertDialog component is used interrupt the user with a mandatory confirmation
or action.

> 🚨 The latest version of Chakra UI introduced a breaking change to this
> component. Kindly update accordingly.

## Import

Chakra UI exports 4 alert dialog related components.

- `AlertDialog`: renders an overlay and wraps the content for the dialog.
- `AlertDialogHeader`: contains the title announced by screen readers.
- `AlertDialogBody`: contains the description announced by screen readers.
- `AlertDialogFooter`: contains the actions of the dialog.
- `AlertDialogOverlay`: The dimmed overlay behind the alert dialog
- `AlertDialogContent`: The container for the alert dialog's content
- `AlertDialogCloseButton`: The button that closes the alert dialog.

```js
import {
  AlertDialog,
  AlertDialogBody,
  AlertDialogFooter,
  AlertDialogHeader,
  AlertDialogContent,
  AlertDialogOverlay,
} from "@chakra-ui/core";
```

## Usage

AlertDialog requires that you provide the `leastDestructiveRef` prop.

Based on
[WAI-ARIA specifications](https://www.w3.org/TR/wai-aria-practices/#alertdialog),
focus should be placed on the least destructive element when the dialog opens,
to prevent users from accidentally confirming the destructive action.

```jsx
function AlertDialogExample() {
  const [isOpen, setIsOpen] = React.useState();
  const onClose = () => setIsOpen(false);
  const cancelRef = React.useRef();

  return (
    <>
      <Button variantColor="red" onClick={() => setIsOpen(true)}>
        Delete Customer
      </Button>

      <AlertDialog
        isOpen={isOpen}
        leastDestructiveRef={cancelRef}
        onClose={onClose}
      >
        <AlertDialogOverlay />
        <AlertDialogContent>
          <AlertDialogHeader fontSize="lg" fontWeight="bold">
            Delete Customer
          </AlertDialogHeader>

          <AlertDialogBody>
            Are you sure? You can't undo this action afterwards.
          </AlertDialogBody>

          <AlertDialogFooter>
            <Button ref={cancelRef} onClick={onClose}>
              Cancel
            </Button>
            <Button variantColor="red" onClick={onClose} ml={3}>
              Delete
            </Button>
          </AlertDialogFooter>
        </AlertDialogContent>
      </AlertDialog>
    </>
  );
}
```

### Adding transition

The modal doesn't come with any transition by default so you can manage this
yourself. Chakra exports two useful transition components `SlideIn` and `Scale`
to provide simple transitions.

> For some reason, focus doesn't return back to the trigger after the transition
> ends. As a walkaround, you might need to set `finalFocusRef` to the trigger or
> any other element, and set `isOpen` to `true`.

```jsx
function TransitionExample() {
  const { isOpen, onOpen, onClose } = useDisclosure();
  const btnRef = React.useRef();
  const cancelRef = React.useRef();

  return (
    <>
      <Button ref={btnRef} onClick={onOpen}>
        Discard
      </Button>
      {/* You can swap the `Scale` with `SlideIn` to see a different transition */}
      <Scale in={isOpen}>
        {styles => (
          <AlertDialog
            leastDestructiveRef={cancelRef}
            finalFocusRef={btnRef}
            onClose={onClose}
            isOpen={true}
          >
            <AlertDialogOverlay opacity={styles.opacity} />
            <AlertDialogContent {...styles}>
              <AlertDialogHeader>Discard Changes?</AlertDialogHeader>
              <AlertDialogCloseButton />
              <AlertDialogBody>
                Are you sure you want to discard all of your notes? 44 words
                will be deleted.
              </AlertDialogBody>
              <AlertDialogFooter>
                <Button ref={cancelRef} onClick={onClose}>
                  No
                </Button>
                <Button variantColor="red" ml={3}>
                  Yes
                </Button>
              </AlertDialogFooter>
            </AlertDialogContent>
          </AlertDialog>
        )}
      </Scale>
    </>
  );
}
```

## Accessibility

- AlertDialog has role `alertdialog`, and `aria-modal` set to true.
- When the dialog opens, focus is automatically set to the least destructive
  element.
- When the dialog opens, the content in the `AlertDialogHeader` and
  `AlertDialogBody` are announced by screen readers via `aria-labelledby` and
  `aria-describedby` attributes.
- Clicking on the overlay closes the AlertDialog.
- Pressing <kbd>esc</kbd> closes the dialog.

## Props

AlertDialog and it's components composes the `Modal` component, the only
exception is that it requires a `leastDestructiveRef` which is similar to the
`initialFocusRef` in `Modal`

| Name                           | Type        | Default | Description                                                   |
| ------------------------------ | ----------- | ------- | ------------------------------------------------------------- |
| leastDestructiveRef (required) | `React.Ref` |         | The least destructive action to get focus when dialog is open |

Commit message:

docs: update docs for modal, drawer and alertdialog component

packages/chakra-ui-docs/pages/alertdialog.mdx, after:

# Alert Dialog

AlertDialog component is used interrupt the user with a mandatory confirmation
or action.

> 🚨 The latest version of Chakra UI introduced a breaking change to this
> component's API. Kindly update accordingly.

## Import

Chakra UI exports 7 alert dialog related components.

- `AlertDialog`: provides context and state for the dialog.
- `AlertDialogHeader`: should contain the title announced by screen readers.
- `AlertDialogBody`: should contain the description announced by screen readers.
- `AlertDialogFooter`: should contain the actions of the dialog.
- `AlertDialogOverlay`: The dimmed overlay behind the dialog.
- `AlertDialogContent`: The wrapper for the alert dialog's content.
- `AlertDialogCloseButton`: The button that closes the dialog.

```js
import {
  AlertDialog,
  AlertDialogBody,
  AlertDialogFooter,
  AlertDialogHeader,
  AlertDialogContent,
  AlertDialogOverlay,
} from "@chakra-ui/core";
```

## Usage

AlertDialog requires that you provide the `leastDestructiveRef` prop.

Based on
[WAI-ARIA specifications](https://www.w3.org/TR/wai-aria-practices/#alertdialog),
focus should be placed on the least destructive element when the dialog opens,
to prevent users from accidentally confirming the destructive action.

```jsx
function AlertDialogExample() {
  const [isOpen, setIsOpen] = React.useState();
  const onClose = () => setIsOpen(false);
  const cancelRef = React.useRef();

  return (
    <>
      <Button variantColor="red" onClick={() => setIsOpen(true)}>
        Delete Customer
      </Button>

      <AlertDialog
        isOpen={isOpen}
        leastDestructiveRef={cancelRef}
        onClose={onClose}
      >
        <AlertDialogOverlay />
        <AlertDialogContent>
          <AlertDialogHeader fontSize="lg" fontWeight="bold">
            Delete Customer
          </AlertDialogHeader>

          <AlertDialogBody>
            Are you sure? You can't undo this action afterwards.
          </AlertDialogBody>

          <AlertDialogFooter>
            <Button ref={cancelRef} onClick={onClose}>
              Cancel
            </Button>
            <Button variantColor="red" onClick={onClose} ml={3}>
              Delete
            </Button>
          </AlertDialogFooter>
        </AlertDialogContent>
      </AlertDialog>
    </>
  );
}
```

### Adding transition

The modal doesn't come with any transition by default so you can manage this
yourself. Chakra exports two transition components `SlideIn` and `Scale` to
provide simple transitions.

> For some reason, focus doesn't return back to the trigger after the transition
> ends. As a walkaround, you might need to set `finalFocusRef` to the trigger or
> any other element, and set `isOpen` to `true`.

```jsx
function TransitionExample() {
  const { isOpen, onOpen, onClose } = useDisclosure();
  const btnRef = React.useRef();
  const cancelRef = React.useRef();

  return (
    <>
      <Button ref={btnRef} onClick={onOpen}>
        Discard
      </Button>
      {/* You can swap the `Scale` with `SlideIn` to see a different transition */}
      <Scale in={isOpen}>
        {styles => (
          <AlertDialog
            leastDestructiveRef={cancelRef}
            finalFocusRef={btnRef}
            onClose={onClose}
            isOpen={true}
          >
            <AlertDialogOverlay opacity={styles.opacity} />
            <AlertDialogContent {...styles}>
              <AlertDialogHeader>Discard Changes?</AlertDialogHeader>
              <AlertDialogCloseButton />
              <AlertDialogBody>
                Are you sure you want to discard all of your notes? 44 words
                will be deleted.
              </AlertDialogBody>
              <AlertDialogFooter>
                <Button ref={cancelRef} onClick={onClose}>
                  No
                </Button>
                <Button variantColor="red" ml={3}>
                  Yes
                </Button>
              </AlertDialogFooter>
            </AlertDialogContent>
          </AlertDialog>
        )}
      </Scale>
    </>
  );
}
```

## Accessibility

- AlertDialog has role `alertdialog`, and `aria-modal` set to true.
- When the dialog opens, focus is automatically set to the least destructive
  element.
- When the dialog opens, the content in the `AlertDialogHeader` and
  `AlertDialogBody` are announced by screen readers via `aria-labelledby` and
  `aria-describedby` attributes.
- Clicking on the overlay closes the AlertDialog.
- Pressing <kbd>esc</kbd> closes the dialog.

## Props

AlertDialog and it's components composes the `Modal` component, the only
exception is that it requires a `leastDestructiveRef` which is similar to the
`initialFocusRef` in `Modal`

| Name                           | Type        | Default | Description                                                   |
| ------------------------------ | ----------- | ------- | ------------------------------------------------------------- |
| leastDestructiveRef (required) | `React.Ref` |         | The least destructive action to get focus when dialog is open |
