packages/chakra-ui-docs/pages/checkbox.mdx, before:

import SEO from "../components/SEO";

<SEO
  title="Checkbox"
  description="Checkbox component is used in forms when a user needs to select multiple values
from several options."
/>

# Checkbox

Checkbox component is used in forms when a user needs to select multiple values
from several options.

Native HTML checkboxes are 100% accessible by default, so we used a
[very common CSS technique](https://dev.to/lkopacz/create-custom-keyboard-accessible-checkboxes-2036)
to style the checkboxes.

The Checkbox component composes [ControlBox](/controlbox), a component we
created to make it easy to style an element based on sibling inputs.

## Import

```js
import { Checkbox, CheckboxGroup } from "@chakra-ui/core";
```

## Usage

Basic usage of checkbox.

```jsx
<Checkbox defaultIsChecked>Checkbox</Checkbox>
```

### Disabled Checkbox

```jsx
<Stack spacing={10} isInline>
  <Checkbox isDisabled>Checkbox</Checkbox>
  <Checkbox isDisabled defaultIsChecked>
    Checkbox
  </Checkbox>
</Stack>
```

### Checkbox with custom color

You can override the color scheme of the checkbox to any color key specified in
`theme.colors`.

```jsx
<Stack spacing={10} isInline>
  <Checkbox variantColor="red" defaultIsChecked>
    Checkbox
  </Checkbox>
  <Checkbox variantColor="green" defaultIsChecked>
    Checkbox
  </Checkbox>
</Stack>
```

### Checkbox sizes

Pass the `size` prop to change the size of the Checkbox. Values can be either
`sm`, `md` or `lg`.

```jsx
<Stack spacing={10} isInline>
  <Checkbox size="sm" variantColor="red">
    Checkbox
  </Checkbox>
  <Checkbox size="md" variantColor="green" defaultIsChecked>
    Checkbox
  </Checkbox>
  <Checkbox size="lg" variantColor="orange" defaultIsChecked>
    Checkbox
  </Checkbox>
</Stack>
```

### Invalid Checkbox

```jsx
<Checkbox isInvalid>Checkbox</Checkbox>
```

### Indeterminate

```jsx
function IndeterminateExample() {
  const [checkedItems, setCheckedItems] = React.useState([false, false]);

  const allChecked = checkedItems.every(Boolean);
  const isIndeterminate = checkedItems.some(Boolean) && !allChecked;

  return (
    <>
      <Checkbox
        isChecked={allChecked}
        isIndeterminate={isIndeterminate}
        onChange={e => setCheckedItems([e.target.checked, e.target.checked])}
        children="Parent Checkbox"
      />
      <Stack pl={6} mt={1} spacing={1}>
        <Checkbox
          isChecked={checkedItems[0]}
          onChange={e => setCheckedItems([e.target.checked, checkedItems[1]])}
          children="Child Checkbox 1"
        />
        <Checkbox
          isChecked={checkedItems[1]}
          onChange={e => setCheckedItems([checkedItems[0], e.target.checked])}
          children="Child Checkbox 2"
        />
      </Stack>
    </>
  );
}
```

### CheckboxGroup

Chakra exports a `CheckboxGroup` component to help manage the checked state of
it's children.

```jsx
<CheckboxGroup variantColor="green" defaultValue={["naruto", "kakashi"]}>
  <Checkbox value="naruto">Naruto</Checkbox>
  <Checkbox value="sasuke">Sasuke</Checkbox>
  <Checkbox value="kakashi">kakashi</Checkbox>
</CheckboxGroup>
```

You can also make checkbox group appear horizontally by passing the `isInline`
prop.

```jsx
<CheckboxGroup
  isInline
  spacing={8}
  variantColor="teal"
  defaultValue={["itachi", "kisame"]}
>
  <Checkbox value="itachi">Itachi</Checkbox>
  <Checkbox value="madara">Madara</Checkbox>
  <Checkbox value="kisame">Kisame</Checkbox>
</CheckboxGroup>
```

## Props

### Checkbox Props

| Name             | Type                 | Default | Description                                                                                                              |
| ---------------- | -------------------- | ------- | ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------ |
| id               | `string`             |         | The id assigned to input field                                                                                           |
| name             | `string`             |         | The name of the input field in a checkbox (Useful for form submission)                                                   |
| value            | `string` or `number` |         | The value to be used in the checkbox input. This is the value that will be returned on form submission.                  |
| variantColor     | `string`             |         | The color of the checkbox when it's checked. This should be one of the color keys in the theme (e.g."green", "red")      |
| defaultIsChecked | `boolean`            |         | If `true`, the checkbox will be initially checked.                                                                       |
| isChecked        | `boolean`            |         | If `true`, the checkbox will be checked. You'll need to pass `onChange` to update it's value (since it's now controlled) |
| isIndeterminate  | `boolean`            |         | If `true`, the checkbox will be indeterminate. This only affects the icon shown inside checkbox                          |
| isFullWidth      | `boolean`            |         | If `true`, the checkbox should take up the full width of the parent.                                                     |
| size             | `sm`, `md`, `lg`     | `md`    | The size (width and height) of the checkbox                                                                              |
| isDisabled       | `boolean`            |         | If `true`, the checkbox will be disabled                                                                                 |
| isInvalid        | `boolean`            |         | If `true`, the checkbox is marked as invalid. Changes style of unchecked state.                                          |
| children         | `React.ReactNode`    |         | The children of the checkbox.                                                                                            |
| onChange         | `function`           |         | Function called when the state of the checkbox changes.                                                                  |
| onBlur           | `function`           |         | Function called when you blur out of the checkbox.                                                                       |
| onFocus          | `function`           |         | Function called when the checkbox receive focus.                                                                         |
| aria-label       | `string`             |         | An accessible label for the checkbox in event there's no visible label or `children` passed                              |
| aria-labelledby  | `string`             |         | Id that points to the label for the checkbox in event no `children` was passed                                           |

### CheckboxGroup Props

CheckboxGroup composes `Box` so you can pass all `Box` props.

| Name         | Type                                       | Default | Description                                                                                                         |
| ------------ | ------------------------------------------ | ------- | ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| id           | `string`                                   |         | The id of the checkbox group.                                                                                       |
| name         | `string`                                   |         | The name of the checkbox group. This attribute is                                                                   |
| value        | `Array<Checkbox["value"]>`                 |         | The value of the checkbox group                                                                                     |
| defaultValue | `Array<Checkbox["value"]>`                 |         | The initial value of the checkbox group                                                                             |
| variantColor | `string`                                   |         | The color of the checkbox when it's checked. This should be one of the color keys in the theme (e.g."green", "red") |
| onChange     | `(values: Array<Checkbox["value"]>): void` |         | The callback fired when any children Checkbox is checked or unchecked                                               |
| children     | `React.ReactNode`                          |         | The content of the checkbox group. Must be the `Checkbox` component                                                 |
| spacing      | `StyledSystem.MarginProps`                 | `8px`   | The space between each checkbox                                                                                     |
| size         | `sm`, `md`, `lg`                           | `md`    | The size of the checkbox, it's forwarded to all children checkbox.                                                  |
| isInline     | `boolean`                                  |         | If `true`, the checkboxes will aligned horizontally.                                                                |

Commit message:

fix: prop name in Checkbox examples

packages/chakra-ui-docs/pages/checkbox.mdx, after:

import SEO from "../components/SEO";

<SEO
  title="Checkbox"
  description="Checkbox component is used in forms when a user needs to select multiple values
from several options."
/>

# Checkbox

Checkbox component is used in forms when a user needs to select multiple values
from several options.

Native HTML checkboxes are 100% accessible by default, so we used a
[very common CSS technique](https://dev.to/lkopacz/create-custom-keyboard-accessible-checkboxes-2036)
to style the checkboxes.

The Checkbox component composes [ControlBox](/controlbox), a component we
created to make it easy to style an element based on sibling inputs.

## Import

```js
import { Checkbox, CheckboxGroup } from "@chakra-ui/core";
```

## Usage

Basic usage of checkbox.

```jsx
<Checkbox defaultIsChecked>Checkbox</Checkbox>
```

### Disabled Checkbox

```jsx
<Stack spacing={10} isInline>
  <Checkbox isDisabled>Checkbox</Checkbox>
  <Checkbox isDisabled defaultIsChecked>
    Checkbox
  </Checkbox>
</Stack>
```

### Checkbox with custom color

> 🚨 Update from v0.2.4: We've changed the `color` prop to `variantColor`.
> Kindly upgrade to the latest version.

You can override the color scheme of the checkbox to any color key specified in
`theme.colors`.

```jsx
<Stack spacing={10} isInline>
  <Checkbox variantColor="red" defaultIsChecked>
    Checkbox
  </Checkbox>
  <Checkbox variantColor="green" defaultIsChecked>
    Checkbox
  </Checkbox>
</Stack>
```

### Checkbox sizes

Pass the `size` prop to change the size of the Checkbox. Values can be either
`sm`, `md` or `lg`.

```jsx
<Stack spacing={10} isInline>
  <Checkbox size="sm" variantColor="red">
    Checkbox
  </Checkbox>
  <Checkbox size="md" variantColor="green" defaultIsChecked>
    Checkbox
  </Checkbox>
  <Checkbox size="lg" variantColor="orange" defaultIsChecked>
    Checkbox
  </Checkbox>
</Stack>
```

### Invalid Checkbox

```jsx
<Checkbox isInvalid>Checkbox</Checkbox>
```

### Indeterminate

```jsx
function IndeterminateExample() {
  const [checkedItems, setCheckedItems] = React.useState([false, false]);

  const allChecked = checkedItems.every(Boolean);
  const isIndeterminate = checkedItems.some(Boolean) && !allChecked;

  return (
    <>
      <Checkbox
        isChecked={allChecked}
        isIndeterminate={isIndeterminate}
        onChange={e => setCheckedItems([e.target.checked, e.target.checked])}
        children="Parent Checkbox"
      />
      <Stack pl={6} mt={1} spacing={1}>
        <Checkbox
          isChecked={checkedItems[0]}
          onChange={e => setCheckedItems([e.target.checked, checkedItems[1]])}
          children="Child Checkbox 1"
        />
        <Checkbox
          isChecked={checkedItems[1]}
          onChange={e => setCheckedItems([checkedItems[0], e.target.checked])}
          children="Child Checkbox 2"
        />
      </Stack>
    </>
  );
}
```

### CheckboxGroup

Chakra exports a `CheckboxGroup` component to help manage the checked state of
it's children.

```jsx
<CheckboxGroup variantColor="green" defaultValue={["naruto", "kakashi"]}>
  <Checkbox value="naruto">Naruto</Checkbox>
  <Checkbox value="sasuke">Sasuke</Checkbox>
  <Checkbox value="kakashi">kakashi</Checkbox>
</CheckboxGroup>
```

You can also make checkbox group appear horizontally by passing the `isInline`
prop.

```jsx
<CheckboxGroup
  isInline
  spacing={8}
  variantColor="teal"
  defaultValue={["itachi", "kisame"]}
>
  <Checkbox value="itachi">Itachi</Checkbox>
  <Checkbox value="madara">Madara</Checkbox>
  <Checkbox value="kisame">Kisame</Checkbox>
</CheckboxGroup>
```

## Props

### Checkbox Props

| Name             | Type                 | Default | Description                                                                                                              |
| ---------------- | -------------------- | ------- | ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------ |
| id               | `string`             |         | The id assigned to input field                                                                                           |
| name             | `string`             |         | The name of the input field in a checkbox (Useful for form submission)                                                   |
| value            | `string` or `number` |         | The value to be used in the checkbox input. This is the value that will be returned on form submission.                  |
| variantColor     | `string`             |         | The color of the checkbox when it's checked. This should be one of the color keys in the theme (e.g."green", "red")      |
| defaultIsChecked | `boolean`            |         | If `true`, the checkbox will be initially checked.                                                                       |
| isChecked        | `boolean`            |         | If `true`, the checkbox will be checked. You'll need to pass `onChange` to update it's value (since it's now controlled) |
| isIndeterminate  | `boolean`            |         | If `true`, the checkbox will be indeterminate. This only affects the icon shown inside checkbox                          |
| isFullWidth      | `boolean`            |         | If `true`, the checkbox should take up the full width of the parent.                                                     |
| size             | `sm`, `md`, `lg`     | `md`    | The size (width and height) of the checkbox                                                                              |
| isDisabled       | `boolean`            |         | If `true`, the checkbox will be disabled                                                                                 |
| isInvalid        | `boolean`            |         | If `true`, the checkbox is marked as invalid. Changes style of unchecked state.                                          |
| children         | `React.ReactNode`    |         | The children of the checkbox.                                                                                            |
| onChange         | `function`           |         | Function called when the state of the checkbox changes.                                                                  |
| onBlur           | `function`           |         | Function called when you blur out of the checkbox.                                                                       |
| onFocus          | `function`           |         | Function called when the checkbox receive focus.                                                                         |
| aria-label       | `string`             |         | An accessible label for the checkbox in event there's no visible label or `children` passed                              |
| aria-labelledby  | `string`             |         | Id that points to the label for the checkbox in event no `children` was passed                                           |

### CheckboxGroup Props

CheckboxGroup composes `Box` so you can pass all `Box` props.

| Name         | Type                                       | Default | Description                                                                                                         |
| ------------ | ------------------------------------------ | ------- | ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| id           | `string`                                   |         | The id of the checkbox group.                                                                                       |
| name         | `string`                                   |         | The name of the checkbox group. This attribute is                                                                   |
| value        | `Array<Checkbox["value"]>`                 |         | The value of the checkbox group                                                                                     |
| defaultValue | `Array<Checkbox["value"]>`                 |         | The initial value of the checkbox group                                                                             |
| variantColor | `string`                                   |         | The color of the checkbox when it's checked. This should be one of the color keys in the theme (e.g."green", "red") |
| onChange     | `(values: Array<Checkbox["value"]>): void` |         | The callback fired when any children Checkbox is checked or unchecked                                               |
| children     | `React.ReactNode`                          |         | The content of the checkbox group. Must be the `Checkbox` component                                                 |
| spacing      | `StyledSystem.MarginProps`                 | `8px`   | The space between each checkbox                                                                                     |
| size         | `sm`, `md`, `lg`                           | `md`    | The size of the checkbox, it's forwarded to all children checkbox.                                                  |
| isInline     | `boolean`                                  |         | If `true`, the checkboxes will aligned horizontally.                                                                |
