packages/chakra-ui-docs/pages/drawer.mdx, before:

# Drawer

The Drawer component is a panel that slides out from the edge of the screen. It
can be useful when you need users to complete a task or view some details
without leaving the current page.

## Installation

```js
import {
  Drawer,
  DrawerBody,
  DrawerFooter,
  DrawerHeader,
  DrawerOverlay,
  DrawerContent,
  DrawerCloseButton,
} from "@chakra-ui/core";
```

## Usage

### Basic Drawer

```jsx
function DrawerExample() {
  const { isOpen, onOpen, onClose } = useDisclosure();
  const btnRef = React.useRef();

  return (
    <>
      <Button ref={btnRef} variantColor="teal" onClick={onOpen}>
        Open
      </Button>
      <Drawer
        isOpen={isOpen}
        placement="right"
        onClose={onClose}
        finalFocusRef={btnRef}
      >
        <DrawerOverlay />
        <DrawerContent>
          <DrawerCloseButton />
          <DrawerHeader>Create your account</DrawerHeader>

          <DrawerBody>
            <Input placeholder="Type here..." />
          </DrawerBody>

          <DrawerFooter>
            <Button variant="outline" mr={3} onClick={onClose}>
              Cancel
            </Button>
            <Button color="blue">Save</Button>
          </DrawerFooter>
        </DrawerContent>
      </Drawer>
    </>
  );
}
```

### Drawer placement

The Drawer can appear from any edge of the screen. Pass the `placement` prop and
set it to `top`, `right`, `bottom`, or `left`.

```jsx
function PlacementExample() {
  const { isOpen, onOpen, onClose } = useDisclosure();
  const [placement, setPlacement] = React.useState("right");
  const handlePlacementChange = event => setPlacement(event.target.value);

  return (
    <>
      <RadioGroup
        isInline
        spacing={5}
        defaultValue={placement}
        onChange={handlePlacementChange}
        mb={6}
      >
        <Radio value="top">Top</Radio>
        <Radio value="right">Right</Radio>
        <Radio value="bottom">Bottom</Radio>
        <Radio value="left">Left</Radio>
      </RadioGroup>
      <Button variantColor="blue" onClick={onOpen}>
        Open
      </Button>
      <Drawer placement={placement} onClose={onClose} isOpen={isOpen}>
        <DrawerOverlay />
        <DrawerContent>
          <DrawerHeader borderBottomWidth="1px">Basic Drawer</DrawerHeader>
          <DrawerBody>
            <p>Some contents...</p>
            <p>Some contents...</p>
            <p>Some contents...</p>
          </DrawerBody>
        </DrawerContent>
      </Drawer>
    </>
  );
}
```

### Giving focus to an element

When a form is in the drawer, you might need to set focus on a field when the
drawer opens. Pass the `initialFocusRef` prop.

> Without the `initialFocusRef` prop, the drawer will set focus on the **first
> focusable element** when it opens.

```jsx
function DrawerExample() {
  const { isOpen, onOpen, onClose } = useDisclosure();
  const firstField = React.useRef();
  const btnRef = React.useRef();

  return (
    <>
      <Button ref={btnRef} leftIcon="add" variantColor="teal" onClick={onOpen}>
        Create user
      </Button>
      <Drawer
        isOpen={isOpen}
        placement="right"
        initialFocusRef={firstField}
        finalFocusRef={btnRef}
        onClose={onClose}
      >
        <DrawerOverlay />
        <DrawerContent>
          <DrawerCloseButton />
          <DrawerHeader borderBottomWidth="1px">
            Create a new account
          </DrawerHeader>

          <DrawerBody>
            <Stack spacing="24px">
              <Box>
                <FormLabel htmlFor="username">Name</FormLabel>
                <Input
                  ref={firstField}
                  id="username"
                  placeholder="Please enter user name"
                />
              </Box>

              <Box>
                <FormLabel htmlFor="url">Url</FormLabel>
                <InputGroup>
                  <InputLeftAddon>http://</InputLeftAddon>
                  <Input
                    type="url"
                    id="url"
                    placeholder="Please enter password"
                    rounded="0"
                  />
                  <InputRightAddon>.com</InputRightAddon>
                </InputGroup>
              </Box>

              <Box>
                <FormLabel htmlFor="owner">Select Owner</FormLabel>
                <Select id="owner" defaultValue="segun">
                  <option value="segun">Segun Adebayo</option>
                  <option value="kola">Kola Tioluwani</option>
                </Select>
              </Box>

              <Box>
                <FormLabel htmlFor="desc">Description</FormLabel>
                <Textarea id="desc" />
              </Box>
            </Stack>
          </DrawerBody>

          <DrawerFooter borderTopWidth="1px">
            <Button variant="outline" mr={3} onClick={onClose}>
              Cancel
            </Button>
            <Button variantColor="blue">Submit</Button>
          </DrawerFooter>
        </DrawerContent>
      </Drawer>
    </>
  );
}
```

### Drawer Widths

Pass the `size` prop if you need to adjust the size of the drawer. Values can be
`xs`, `sm`, `md`, `lg`, `xl`, or `full`.

```jsx
function SizeExample() {
  const [size, setSize] = React.useState("md");
  const { isOpen, onOpen, onClose } = useDisclosure();

  const handleClick = newSize => {
    setSize(newSize);
    onOpen();
  };

  const sizes = ["xs", "sm", "md", "lg", "xl", "full"];

  return (
    <>
      {sizes.map(size => (
        <Button
          onClick={() => handleClick(size)}
          type="button"
          key={size}
          m={4}
        >{`Open ${size} Drawer`}</Button>
      ))}

      <Drawer onClose={onClose} isOpen={isOpen} size={size}>
        <DrawerOverlay />
        <DrawerContent>
          <DrawerHeader>{`${size} drawer contents`}</DrawerHeader>
          <DrawerBody>
            {size === "full"
              ? `You're trapped 😆, refresh the page to leave`
              : null}
          </DrawerBody>
        </DrawerContent>
      </Drawer>
    </>
  );
}
```

## Accessibility

- When opening the Drawer, focus is trapped inside the Drawer.
- By default, the drawer sets focus on the first focusable element. If the
  `initialFocusRef` prop is passed, the drawer sets focus on the element with
  the assigned `ref`.
- After the drawer closes, it'll return focus to the element that triggered it.

## Props

| Name              | Type                                 | Default | Description                                                            |
| ----------------- | ------------------------------------ | ------- | ---------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| `isOpen`          | `boolean`                            | false   | If `true`, the drawer is shown.                                        |
| `onClose`         | `function`                           |         | Callback invoked when user closes the drawer.                          |
| `placement`       | `top`, `left`, `bottom`, `right`     | `left`  | Set the position of the drawer.                                        |
| `size`            | `xs`, `sm`, `md`, `lg`, `xl`, `full` | `md`    | The size of the drawer when placement is `left` or `right`.            |
| `children`        | `React.ReactNode`                    |         | The children of the `InputGroup` e.g `InputLeftAddon`, `Input`.        |
| `isFullHeight`    | `boolean`                            | `false` | If `true`, the drawer fills the height of the viewport by default.     |
| `initialFocusRef` | `React.Ref`                          |         | The ref to the initial element to receive focus when the drawer opens. |
| `overlayBg`       | `string`                             |         | The background color of the overlay.                                   |

Commit message:

docs(modal, drawer, alertdialog): update docs to reflect new api

packages/chakra-ui-docs/pages/drawer.mdx, after:

# Drawer

The Drawer component is a panel that slides out from the edge of the screen. It
can be useful when you need users to complete a task or view some details
without leaving the current page.

> 🚨 The latest version of Chakra UI introduced a breaking change to this
> component. Kindly update accordingly.

## Installation

```js
import {
  Drawer,
  DrawerBody,
  DrawerFooter,
  DrawerHeader,
  DrawerOverlay,
  DrawerContent,
  DrawerCloseButton,
} from "@chakra-ui/core";
```

## Usage

### Basic Drawer

```jsx
function DrawerExample() {
  const { isOpen, onOpen, onClose } = useDisclosure();
  const btnRef = React.useRef();

  return (
    <>
      <Button ref={btnRef} variantColor="teal" onClick={onOpen}>
        Open
      </Button>
      <Drawer
        isOpen={isOpen}
        placement="right"
        onClose={onClose}
        finalFocusRef={btnRef}
      >
        <DrawerOverlay />
        <DrawerContent>
          <DrawerCloseButton />
          <DrawerHeader>Create your account</DrawerHeader>

          <DrawerBody>
            <Input placeholder="Type here..." />
          </DrawerBody>

          <DrawerFooter>
            <Button variant="outline" mr={3} onClick={onClose}>
              Cancel
            </Button>
            <Button color="blue">Save</Button>
          </DrawerFooter>
        </DrawerContent>
      </Drawer>
    </>
  );
}
```

### Drawer placement

The Drawer can appear from any edge of the screen. Pass the `placement` prop and
set it to `top`, `right`, `bottom`, or `left`.

```jsx
function PlacementExample() {
  const { isOpen, onOpen, onClose } = useDisclosure();
  const [placement, setPlacement] = React.useState("right");
  const handlePlacementChange = event => setPlacement(event.target.value);

  return (
    <>
      <RadioGroup
        isInline
        spacing={5}
        defaultValue={placement}
        onChange={handlePlacementChange}
        mb={6}
      >
        <Radio value="top">Top</Radio>
        <Radio value="right">Right</Radio>
        <Radio value="bottom">Bottom</Radio>
        <Radio value="left">Left</Radio>
      </RadioGroup>
      <Button variantColor="blue" onClick={onOpen}>
        Open
      </Button>
      <Drawer placement={placement} onClose={onClose} isOpen={isOpen}>
        <DrawerOverlay />
        <DrawerContent>
          <DrawerHeader borderBottomWidth="1px">Basic Drawer</DrawerHeader>
          <DrawerBody>
            <p>Some contents...</p>
            <p>Some contents...</p>
            <p>Some contents...</p>
          </DrawerBody>
        </DrawerContent>
      </Drawer>
    </>
  );
}
```

### Giving focus to an element

When a form is in the drawer, you might need to set focus on a field when the
drawer opens. Pass the `initialFocusRef` prop.

> Without the `initialFocusRef` prop, the drawer will set focus on the **first
> focusable element** when it opens.

```jsx
function DrawerExample() {
  const { isOpen, onOpen, onClose } = useDisclosure();
  const firstField = React.useRef();
  const btnRef = React.useRef();

  return (
    <>
      <Button ref={btnRef} leftIcon="add" variantColor="teal" onClick={onOpen}>
        Create user
      </Button>
      <Drawer
        isOpen={isOpen}
        placement="right"
        initialFocusRef={firstField}
        finalFocusRef={btnRef}
        onClose={onClose}
      >
        <DrawerOverlay />
        <DrawerContent>
          <DrawerCloseButton />
          <DrawerHeader borderBottomWidth="1px">
            Create a new account
          </DrawerHeader>

          <DrawerBody>
            <Stack spacing="24px">
              <Box>
                <FormLabel htmlFor="username">Name</FormLabel>
                <Input
                  ref={firstField}
                  id="username"
                  placeholder="Please enter user name"
                />
              </Box>

              <Box>
                <FormLabel htmlFor="url">Url</FormLabel>
                <InputGroup>
                  <InputLeftAddon>http://</InputLeftAddon>
                  <Input
                    type="url"
                    id="url"
                    placeholder="Please enter password"
                    rounded="0"
                  />
                  <InputRightAddon>.com</InputRightAddon>
                </InputGroup>
              </Box>

              <Box>
                <FormLabel htmlFor="owner">Select Owner</FormLabel>
                <Select id="owner" defaultValue="segun">
                  <option value="segun">Segun Adebayo</option>
                  <option value="kola">Kola Tioluwani</option>
                </Select>
              </Box>

              <Box>
                <FormLabel htmlFor="desc">Description</FormLabel>
                <Textarea id="desc" />
              </Box>
            </Stack>
          </DrawerBody>

          <DrawerFooter borderTopWidth="1px">
            <Button variant="outline" mr={3} onClick={onClose}>
              Cancel
            </Button>
            <Button variantColor="blue">Submit</Button>
          </DrawerFooter>
        </DrawerContent>
      </Drawer>
    </>
  );
}
```

### Drawer Widths

Pass the `size` prop if you need to adjust the size of the drawer. Values can be
`xs`, `sm`, `md`, `lg`, `xl`, or `full`.

```jsx
function SizeExample() {
  const [size, setSize] = React.useState("md");
  const { isOpen, onOpen, onClose } = useDisclosure();

  const handleClick = newSize => {
    setSize(newSize);
    onOpen();
  };

  const sizes = ["xs", "sm", "md", "lg", "xl", "full"];

  return (
    <>
      {sizes.map(size => (
        <Button
          onClick={() => handleClick(size)}
          type="button"
          key={size}
          m={4}
        >{`Open ${size} Drawer`}</Button>
      ))}

      <Drawer onClose={onClose} isOpen={isOpen} size={size}>
        <DrawerOverlay />
        <DrawerContent>
          <DrawerHeader>{`${size} drawer contents`}</DrawerHeader>
          <DrawerBody>
            {size === "full"
              ? `You're trapped 😆, refresh the page to leave`
              : null}
          </DrawerBody>
        </DrawerContent>
      </Drawer>
    </>
  );
}
```

## Accessibility

- When opening the Drawer, focus is trapped inside the Drawer.
- By default, the drawer sets focus on the first focusable element. If the
  `initialFocusRef` prop is passed, the drawer sets focus on the element with
  the assigned `ref`.
- After the drawer closes, it'll return focus to the element that triggered it.

## Props

The Drawer and it's components composes the `Modal` with exception of the
following props:

| Name           | Type                             | Default | Description                                                                                         |
| -------------- | -------------------------------- | ------- | --------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| `isFullHeight` | `boolean`                        | `false` | If `true` and `placement` is set to `top` or `bottom`, the drawer fills the height of the viewport. |
| `placement`    | `left`, `right`, `top`, `bottom` | `right` | The ref to the initial element to receive focus when the drawer opens.                              |
