packages/chakra-ui-docs/pages/grid.mdx, before:

# Grid

A primitive useful for grid layouts. Grid is `Box` with `display: grid` and
comes with helpful style shorthand. It renders a `div` element.

## Import

```js
import { Flex } from "@chakra-ui/core";
```

## Usage

Using the Flex components, here are some helpful shorthand props:

| Verbose Prop          | Shorthand Prop    |
| --------------------- | ----------------- |
| `gridArea`            | `area`            |
| `gridTemplateAreas`   | `templateAreas`   |
| `gridGap`             | `gap`             |
| `gridRowGap`          | `rowGap`          |
| `gridColumnGap`       | `columnGap`       |
| `gridAutoColumns`     | `autoColumns`     |
| `gridColumn`          | `column`          |
| `gridRow`             | `row`             |
| `gridAutoFlow`        | `autoFlow`        |
| `gridAutoRows`        | `autoRows`        |
| `gridTemplateRows`    | `templateRows`    |
| `gridTemplateColumns` | `templateColumns` |

While you can pass the verbose props, using the shorthand can save you some
time.

```jsx
<Grid templateColumns="repeat(5, 1fr)" gap={6}>
  <Box w="100%" h="10" bg="blue.500" />
  <Box w="100%" h="10" bg="blue.500" />
  <Box w="100%" h="10" bg="blue.500" />
  <Box w="100%" h="10" bg="blue.500" />
  <Box w="100%" h="10" bg="blue.500" />
</Grid>
```

Commit message:

docs(grid): update the grid docs

packages/chakra-ui-docs/pages/grid.mdx, after:

import SEO from "../components/SEO";

<SEO
  title="Grid"
  description="Grid is Box with `display: grid` and comes with helpful style shorthand. It renders a `div` element."
/>

# Grid

A primitive useful for grid layouts. Grid is `Box` with `display: grid` and
comes with helpful style shorthand. It renders a `div` element.

## Import

```js
import { Grid } from "@chakra-ui/core";
```

## Usage

Using the Grid components, here are some helpful shorthand props:

| Verbose Prop          | Shorthand Prop    |
| --------------------- | ----------------- |
| `gridArea`            | `area`            |
| `gridTemplateAreas`   | `templateAreas`   |
| `gridGap`             | `gap`             |
| `gridRowGap`          | `rowGap`          |
| `gridColumnGap`       | `columnGap`       |
| `gridAutoColumns`     | `autoColumns`     |
| `gridColumn`          | `column`          |
| `gridRow`             | `row`             |
| `gridAutoFlow`        | `autoFlow`        |
| `gridAutoRows`        | `autoRows`        |
| `gridTemplateRows`    | `templateRows`    |
| `gridTemplateColumns` | `templateColumns` |

While you can pass the verbose props, using the shorthand can save you some
time.

```jsx
<Grid templateColumns="repeat(5, 1fr)" gap={6}>
  <Box w="100%" h="10" bg="blue.500" />
  <Box w="100%" h="10" bg="blue.500" />
  <Box w="100%" h="10" bg="blue.500" />
  <Box w="100%" h="10" bg="blue.500" />
  <Box w="100%" h="10" bg="blue.500" />
</Grid>
```

## Props

Grid composes `Box` so you can pass all the `Box` prop and related css grid
props.
