packages/chakra-ui-docs/pages/image.mdx, before:

# Image

The Image component is used to display images.

Image composes `Box` so you can use all the style props and add responsive
styles as well.

## Import

```js
import { Image } from "@chakra-ui/core";
```

## Usage

```jsx
<Box size="sm">
  <Image src="https://bit.ly/sage-adebayo" alt="Segun Adebayo" />
</Box>
```

## Size

The size of the image can be adjusted using the `size` prop.

```jsx
<Stack isInline>
  <Image
    size="100px"
    objectFit="cover"
    src="https://bit.ly/sage-adebayo"
    alt="Segun Adebayo"
  />
  <Image
    size="150px"
    objectFit="cover"
    src="https://bit.ly/dan-abramov"
    alt="Dan Abramov"
  />
  <Image size="200px" src="https://bit.ly/dan-abramov" alt="Dan Abramov" />
</Stack>
```

## Rounded Image

```jsx
<Image
  rounded="full"
  size="150px"
  src="https://bit.ly/sage-adebayo"
  alt="Segun Adebayo"
/>
```

## Fallback support

You can provide a fallback image for when there is an error loading the `src` of
the image.

```jsx
<Image src="gibbresh.png" fallbackSrc="https://via.placeholder.com/150" />
```

## Props

| Name          | Type       | Default | Description                                                                                                                  |
| ------------- | ---------- | ------- | ---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| `src`         | `string`   |         | The path to the image source                                                                                                 |
| `fallbackSrc` | `string`   |         | In event there was an error loading the `src`, specify a fallback. In most cases, this can be an avatar or image placeholder |
| `alt`         | `string`   |         | The alt text that describes the image                                                                                        |
| `onLoad`      | `function` |         | A callback for when the image `src` has been loaded                                                                          |
| `onError`     | `function` |         | A callback for when there was an error loading the image `src`                                                               |

Commit message:

fix(image): add prop to opt out of the fallbackSrc logic

packages/chakra-ui-docs/pages/image.mdx, after:

# Image

The Image component is used to display images.

Image composes `Box` so you can use all the style props and add responsive
styles as well.

## Import

```js
import { Image } from "@chakra-ui/core";
```

## Usage

```jsx
<Box size="sm">
  <Image src="https://bit.ly/sage-adebayo" alt="Segun Adebayo" />
</Box>
```

## Size

The size of the image can be adjusted using the `size` prop.

```jsx
<Stack isInline>
  <Image
    size="100px"
    objectFit="cover"
    src="https://bit.ly/sage-adebayo"
    alt="Segun Adebayo"
  />
  <Image
    size="150px"
    objectFit="cover"
    src="https://bit.ly/dan-abramov"
    alt="Dan Abramov"
  />
  <Image size="200px" src="https://bit.ly/dan-abramov" alt="Dan Abramov" />
</Stack>
```

## Rounded Image

```jsx
<Image
  rounded="full"
  size="150px"
  src="https://bit.ly/sage-adebayo"
  alt="Segun Adebayo"
/>
```

## Fallback support

You can provide a fallback image for when there is an error loading the `src` of
the image. You can also opt out of this behavior by passing the `ignoreFallback`
prop.

```jsx
<Image src="gibbresh.png" fallbackSrc="https://via.placeholder.com/150" />
```

## Props

| Name             | Type               | Default | Description                                                                                                                  |
| ---------------- | ------------------ | ------- | ---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| `src`            | `string`           |         | The path to the image source                                                                                                 |
| `fallbackSrc`    | `string`           |         | In event there was an error loading the `src`, specify a fallback. In most cases, this can be an avatar or image placeholder |
| `alt`            | `string`           |         | The alt text that describes the image                                                                                        |
| `onLoad`         | `function`         |         | A callback for when the image `src` has been loaded                                                                          |
| `onError`        | `function`         |         | A callback for when there was an error loading the image `src`                                                               |
| `htmlWidth`      | `string`, `number` |         | The native HTML width attribute of the `img` element                                                                         |
| `htmlHeight`     | `string`, `number` |         | The native HTML height attribute of the `img` element                                                                        |
| `ignoreFallback` | `boolean`          |         | Opt out of the `fallbackSrc` logic and use the `Image` directly                                                              |
