packages/chakra-ui-docs/pages/input.mdx, before:

# Input

Input component enables the user to interact with and input content and data.
The form input allows you to create various text style inputs such as `text`,
`password`, `email`, `number`, `url`, `search` and more.

## Import

```js
import { Input } from "@chakra-ui/core";
```

## Usage

Here's a basic usage of the Input component.

```jsx
<Input placeholder="Basic usage" />
```

### Three sizes of Input

There are three sizes of an Input : large (40px), default (32px) and small
(24px).

```jsx
<Stack spacing={3}>
  <Input placeholder="large size" size="lg" />
  <Input placeholder="default size" size="md" />
  <Input placeholder="small size" size="sm" />
</Stack>
```

### Left and Right Addons

Just like bootstrap, you can add addons to the left and right of the input
component. Chakra UI exports `InputGroup`, `InputLeftAddon`, `InputRightAddon`
to help with this use case.

```jsx
<Stack spacing={4}>
  <InputGroup>
    <InputLeftAddon children="+234" />
    <Input type="phone" roundedLeft="0" placeholder="phone number" />
  </InputGroup>

  {/* If you add the size prop to `InputGroup`, it'll pass it to all it's children. */}
  <InputGroup size="sm">
    <InputLeftAddon children="https://" />
    <Input rounded="0" placeholder="mysite" />
    <InputRightAddon children=".com" />
  </InputGroup>
</Stack>
```

### Add elements inside input

In some scenarios, you might need to add an icon or button inside the input
component. Chakra UI exports `InputLeftElement`, and `InputRightElement` to help
with this use case.

```jsx
<Stack spacing={4}>
  <InputGroup>
    <InputLeftElement children={<Icon name="phone" color="gray.300" />} />
    <Input type="phone" placeholder="Phone number" />
  </InputGroup>

  <InputGroup>
    <InputLeftElement color="gray.300" fontSize="1.2em" children="$" />
    <Input placeholder="Enter amount" />
    <InputRightElement children={<Icon name="check" color="green.500" />} />
  </InputGroup>
</Stack>
```

### Password Input Example

Let's use these components to create a password input with a show/hide password
functionality.

```jsx
function PasswordInput() {
  const [show, setShow] = React.useState(false);
  const handleClick = () => setShow(!show);

  return (
    <InputGroup size="md">
      <Input
        pr="4.5rem"
        type={show ? "text" : "password"}
        placeholder="Enter password"
      />
      <InputRightElement width="4.5rem">
        <Button h="1.75rem" size="sm" onClick={handleClick}>
          {show ? "Hide" : "Show"}
        </Button>
      </InputRightElement>
    </InputGroup>
  );
}
```

### Controlled Input

```jsx
function Example() {
  const [value, setValue] = React.useState("");
  const handleChange = event => setValue(event.target.value);

  return (
    <>
      <Text mb="8px">Value: {value}</Text>
      <Input
        value={value}
        onChange={handleChange}
        placeholder="Here is a sample placeholder"
        size="sm"
      />
    </>
  );
}
```

### Focus border color

You can change the border color that shows when the input receives focus.

```jsx
<Stack spacing={3}>
  <Input focusBorderColor="green" placeholder="Here is a sample placeholder" />
  <Input focusBorderColor="pink" placeholder="Here is a sample placeholder" />
  <Input focusBorderColor="teal" placeholder="Here is a sample placeholder" />
</Stack>
```

## Props

The Input component composes [PseudoBox](/pseudobox) so you can pass all
`PseudoBox` props, and `React.InputHTMLAttributes`.

| Name               | Type                                       | Default   | Description                                                                                                                           |
| ------------------ | ------------------------------------------ | --------- | ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| `as`               | `React.ElementType`                        |           | The component to use in place of `input`.                                                                                             |
| `aria-label`       | `string`                                   |           | Accessibility label to use, in scenarios where the input has no visible label. A11y: It's usefult for screen readers.                 |
| `aria-describedby` | `string`                                   |           | Accessibility label to use, in scenarios where the input has no visible label. A11y: It's usefult for screen readers.                 |
| `isDisabled`       | `boolean`                                  | `false`   | If `true`, the input will be disabled. This sets `aria-disabled=true` and you can style this state by passing `_disabled` prop.       |
| `isInvalid`        | `boolean`                                  | `false`   | If `true`, the `input` will indicate an error. This sets `aria-invalid=true` and you can style this state by passing `_invalid` prop. |
| `isRequired`       | `boolean`                                  | `false`   | If `true`, the input element will be required.                                                                                        |
| `isFullWidth`      | `boolean`                                  | `false`   | If `true`, the input element will span the full width of it's parent.                                                                 |
| `isReadOnly`       | `boolean`                                  | `false`   | If `true`, prevents the value of the input from being edited.                                                                         |
| `size`             | `sm`, `md`, `lg`                           | `md`      | The visual size of the `input` element.                                                                                               |
| `variant`          | `outline`, `unstyled`, `flushed`, `filled` | `outline` | The variant of the input style to use.                                                                                                |
| `focusBorderColor` | `string`                                   |           | The border color when the input is focused. Use color keys in `theme.colors` e.g `_focusBorderColor = "blue"`                         |

Commit message:

docs(input): update docs for focus and error border color

packages/chakra-ui-docs/pages/input.mdx, after:

# Input

Input component enables the user to interact with and input content and data.
The form input allows you to create various text style inputs such as `text`,
`password`, `email`, `number`, `url`, `search` and more.

## Import

```js
import { Input } from "@chakra-ui/core";
```

## Usage

Here's a basic usage of the Input component.

```jsx
<Input placeholder="Basic usage" />
```

### Three sizes of Input

There are three sizes of an Input : large (40px), default (32px) and small
(24px).

```jsx
<Stack spacing={3}>
  <Input placeholder="large size" size="lg" />
  <Input placeholder="default size" size="md" />
  <Input placeholder="small size" size="sm" />
</Stack>
```

### Left and Right Addons

Just like bootstrap, you can add addons to the left and right of the input
component. Chakra UI exports `InputGroup`, `InputLeftAddon`, `InputRightAddon`
to help with this use case.

```jsx
<Stack spacing={4}>
  <InputGroup>
    <InputLeftAddon children="+234" />
    <Input type="phone" roundedLeft="0" placeholder="phone number" />
  </InputGroup>

  {/* If you add the size prop to `InputGroup`, it'll pass it to all it's children. */}
  <InputGroup size="sm">
    <InputLeftAddon children="https://" />
    <Input rounded="0" placeholder="mysite" />
    <InputRightAddon children=".com" />
  </InputGroup>
</Stack>
```

### Add elements inside input

In some scenarios, you might need to add an icon or button inside the input
component. Chakra UI exports `InputLeftElement`, and `InputRightElement` to help
with this use case.

```jsx
<Stack spacing={4}>
  <InputGroup>
    <InputLeftElement children={<Icon name="phone" color="gray.300" />} />
    <Input type="phone" placeholder="Phone number" />
  </InputGroup>

  <InputGroup>
    <InputLeftElement color="gray.300" fontSize="1.2em" children="$" />
    <Input placeholder="Enter amount" />
    <InputRightElement children={<Icon name="check" color="green.500" />} />
  </InputGroup>
</Stack>
```

### Password Input Example

Let's use these components to create a password input with a show/hide password
functionality.

```jsx
function PasswordInput() {
  const [show, setShow] = React.useState(false);
  const handleClick = () => setShow(!show);

  return (
    <InputGroup size="md">
      <Input
        pr="4.5rem"
        type={show ? "text" : "password"}
        placeholder="Enter password"
      />
      <InputRightElement width="4.5rem">
        <Button h="1.75rem" size="sm" onClick={handleClick}>
          {show ? "Hide" : "Show"}
        </Button>
      </InputRightElement>
    </InputGroup>
  );
}
```

### Controlled Input

```jsx
function Example() {
  const [value, setValue] = React.useState("");
  const handleChange = event => setValue(event.target.value);

  return (
    <>
      <Text mb="8px">Value: {value}</Text>
      <Input
        value={value}
        onChange={handleChange}
        placeholder="Here is a sample placeholder"
        size="sm"
      />
    </>
  );
}
```

### Changing the focus and error border colors

You can change the border color that shows when the input receives focus
(`focusBorderColor`) and when `isInvalid` is set to `true` (`errorBorderColor`).
The value can be set to a color in the theme object, like `teal.400` or a raw
CSS value.

```jsx
<Stack spacing={3}>
  <Input focusBorderColor="lime" placeholder="Here is a sample placeholder" />
  <Input
    focusBorderColor="pink.400"
    placeholder="Here is a sample placeholder"
  />
  <Input
    isInvalid
    errorBorderColor="red.300"
    placeholder="Here is a sample placeholder"
  />
  <Input
    isInvalid
    errorBorderColor="crimson"
    placeholder="Here is a sample placeholder"
  />
</Stack>
```

## Props

The Input component composes [PseudoBox](/pseudobox) so you can pass all
`PseudoBox` props, and `React.InputHTMLAttributes`.

| Name               | Type                                       | Default   | Description                                                                                                                           |
| ------------------ | ------------------------------------------ | --------- | ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| `as`               | `React.ElementType`                        | `input`   | The component to use in place of `input`.                                                                                             |
| `aria-label`       | `string`                                   |           | Accessibility label to use, in scenarios where the input has no visible label. A11y: It's usefult for screen readers.                 |
| `aria-describedby` | `string`                                   |           | Accessibility label to use, in scenarios where the input has no visible label. A11y: It's usefult for screen readers.                 |
| `isDisabled`       | `boolean`                                  | `false`   | If `true`, the input will be disabled. This sets `aria-disabled=true` and you can style this state by passing `_disabled` prop.       |
| `isInvalid`        | `boolean`                                  | `false`   | If `true`, the `input` will indicate an error. This sets `aria-invalid=true` and you can style this state by passing `_invalid` prop. |
| `isRequired`       | `boolean`                                  | `false`   | If `true`, the input element will be required.                                                                                        |
| `isFullWidth`      | `boolean`                                  | `false`   | If `true`, the input element will span the full width of it's parent.                                                                 |
| `isReadOnly`       | `boolean`                                  | `false`   | If `true`, prevents the value of the input from being edited.                                                                         |
| `size`             | `sm`, `md`, `lg`                           | `md`      | The visual size of the `input` element.                                                                                               |
| `variant`          | `outline`, `unstyled`, `flushed`, `filled` | `outline` | The variant of the input style to use.                                                                                                |
| `focusBorderColor` | `string`                                   |           | The border color when the input is focused.                                                                                           |
| `errorBorderColor` | `string`                                   |           | The border color when `isInvalid` is set to `true`.                                                                                   |
