packages/chakra-ui-docs/pages/radio.mdx, before:

# Radio

Radios are used when only one choice may be selected in a series of options.

Native HTML radios are 100% accessible by default, so we used a
[very common CSS technique](https://dev.to/lkopacz/create-custom-keyboard-accessible-radio-buttons-22eh)
to style the radio.

The Radio component composes `ControlBox`, a component we created to make it
easy to style sibling inputs. [Check it out](/controlbox)

## Installation

```js
import { Radio, RadioGroup } from "@chakra-ui/core";
```

### Usage

```jsx
function RadioExample() {
  const [value, setValue] = React.useState("1");
  return (
    <RadioGroup onChange={e => setValue(e.target.value)} value={value}>
      <Radio value="1">First</Radio>
      <Radio value="2">Second</Radio>
      <Radio value="3">Third</Radio>
    </RadioGroup>
  );
}
```

### Radio with custom color

You can override the color scheme of the Radio to any color key specified in
`theme.colors`.

```jsx
<RadioGroup defaultValue="2" spacing={5} isInline>
  <Radio variantColor="red" value="1">
    Radio
  </Radio>
  <Radio variantColor="green" value="2">
    Radio
  </Radio>
</RadioGroup>
```

### Radio sizes

The checkbox comes with 3 sizes

```jsx
<Stack>
  <Radio size="sm" name="1" variantColor="red">
    Radio
  </Radio>
  <Radio size="md" name="1" variantColor="green">
    Radio
  </Radio>
  <Radio size="lg" name="1" variantColor="orange" defaultChecked>
    Radio
  </Radio>
</Stack>
```

### Disabled radios

```jsx
<RadioGroup defaultValue="1">
  <Radio value="1" isDisabled>
    Checked
  </Radio>
  <Radio value="2">Unchecked</Radio>
  <Radio value="3">Unchecked</Radio>
</RadioGroup>
```

### Horizontal alignment

```jsx
<RadioGroup isInline spacing={4} defaultValue="1">
  <Radio value="1" isDisabled>
    Radio 1
  </Radio>
  <Radio value="2">Radio 2</Radio>
  <Radio value="3">Radio 3</Radio>
</RadioGroup>
```

### Invalid Checkbox

```jsx
<Radio isInvalid>Radio</Radio>
```

### Custom Radio Buttons

In some cases, you might need to create components that work like radios but
don't look like radios. Chakra exports a `RadioButtonGroup` to help with this
scenario. Here's what you need to do:

1. Create a component that accepts the `isChecked` and `isDisabled` props. Be
   sure to `forwardRef` to the component because it's used for keyboard
   accessibility.
2. Add the component as children of `RadioButtonGroup` and pass a `value` prop
   to it.
3. If you pass `isDisabled` to any of it's children, it'll be skipped in the
   keyboard navigation.

```jsx isManual=true
// Step 1: Create a component that accepts `isChecked` and `isDisabled` prop
const CustomRadio = React.forwardRef((props, ref) => {
  const { isChecked, isDisabled, value, ...rest } = props;
  return (
    <Button
      ref={ref}
      variantColor={isChecked ? "red" : "gray"}
      aria-checked={isChecked}
      role="radio"
      isDisabled={isDisabled}
      {...rest}
    />
  );
});

// Step 2: Add `CustomRadio` as children of `RadioButtonGroup`
function Example() {
  return (
    <RadioButtonGroup
      defaultValue="rad2"
      onChange={val => console.log(val)}
      isInline
    >
      <CustomRadio value="rad1">CustomRadio 1</CustomRadio>
      <CustomRadio value="rad2">CustomRadio 2</CustomRadio>
      <CustomRadio value="rad3">CustomRadio 3</CustomRadio>
      {/* This child will be skipped in keyboard navigation */}
      <CustomRadio isDisabled value="rad4">
        CustomRadio 4
      </CustomRadio>
    </RadioButtonGroup>
  );
}

render(<Example />);
```

## Props

| Name             | Type                 | Default | Description                                                                                                           |
| ---------------- | -------------------- | ------- | --------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| id               | `string`             |         | The id assigned to input field                                                                                        |
| name             | `string`             |         | The name of the input field in a radio (Useful for form submission)                                                   |
| value            | `string` or `number` |         | The value to be used in the radio input. This is the value that will be returned on form submission                   |
| variantColor     | `string`             |         | The color of the radio when it's checked. This should be one of the color keys in the theme (e.g."green", "red")      |
| defaultIsChecked | `boolean`            |         | If `true`, the radio will be initially checked                                                                        |
| isChecked        | `boolean`            |         | If `true`, the radio will be checked. You'll need to pass `onChange` to update it's value (since it's now controlled) |
| isFullWidth      | `boolean`            |         | If `true`, the radio should take up the full width of the parent                                                      |
| size             | `sm`, `md`, `lg`     | `md`    | The size (width and height) of the radio                                                                              |
| isDisabled       | `boolean`            |         | If `true`, the radio will be disabled                                                                                 |
| isInvalid        | `boolean`            |         | If `true`, the radio is marked as invalid. Changes style of unchecked state                                           |
| children         | `React.ReactNode`    |         | The children of the radio                                                                                             |
| onChange         | `function`           |         | Function called when the state of the radio changes                                                                   |
| onBlur           | `function`           |         | Function called when you blur out of the radio                                                                        |
| onFocus          | `function`           |         | Function called when the radio receive focus                                                                          |
| aria-label       | `string`             |         | An accessible label for the radio in event there's no visible label or `children` was passed                          |
| aria-labelledby  | `string`             |         | Id that points to the label for the radio in event no `children` was passed                                           |

Commit message:

fix: prop name in Checkbox examples

packages/chakra-ui-docs/pages/radio.mdx, after:

# Radio

Radios are used when only one choice may be selected in a series of options.

Native HTML radios are 100% accessible by default, so we used a
[very common CSS technique](https://dev.to/lkopacz/create-custom-keyboard-accessible-radio-buttons-22eh)
to style the radio.

The Radio component composes `ControlBox`, a component we created to make it
easy to style sibling inputs. [Check it out](/controlbox)

## Installation

```js
import { Radio, RadioGroup } from "@chakra-ui/core";
```

### Usage

```jsx
function RadioExample() {
  const [value, setValue] = React.useState("1");
  return (
    <RadioGroup onChange={e => setValue(e.target.value)} value={value}>
      <Radio value="1">First</Radio>
      <Radio value="2">Second</Radio>
      <Radio value="3">Third</Radio>
    </RadioGroup>
  );
}
```

### Radio with custom color

> 🚨 Update from v0.2.4: We've changed the `color` prop to `variantColor`.
> Kindly upgrade to the latest version.

You can override the color scheme of the Radio to any color key specified in
`theme.colors`.

```jsx
<RadioGroup defaultValue="2" spacing={5} isInline>
  <Radio variantColor="red" value="1">
    Radio
  </Radio>
  <Radio variantColor="green" value="2">
    Radio
  </Radio>
</RadioGroup>
```

### Radio sizes

The checkbox comes with 3 sizes

```jsx
<Stack>
  <Radio size="sm" name="1" variantColor="red">
    Radio
  </Radio>
  <Radio size="md" name="1" variantColor="green">
    Radio
  </Radio>
  <Radio size="lg" name="1" variantColor="orange" defaultChecked>
    Radio
  </Radio>
</Stack>
```

### Disabled radios

```jsx
<RadioGroup defaultValue="1">
  <Radio value="1" isDisabled>
    Checked
  </Radio>
  <Radio value="2">Unchecked</Radio>
  <Radio value="3">Unchecked</Radio>
</RadioGroup>
```

### Horizontal alignment

```jsx
<RadioGroup isInline spacing={4} defaultValue="1">
  <Radio value="1" isDisabled>
    Radio 1
  </Radio>
  <Radio value="2">Radio 2</Radio>
  <Radio value="3">Radio 3</Radio>
</RadioGroup>
```

### Invalid Checkbox

```jsx
<Radio isInvalid>Radio</Radio>
```

### Custom Radio Buttons

In some cases, you might need to create components that work like radios but
don't look like radios. Chakra exports a `RadioButtonGroup` to help with this
scenario. Here's what you need to do:

1. Create a component that accepts the `isChecked` and `isDisabled` props. Be
   sure to `forwardRef` to the component because it's used for keyboard
   accessibility.
2. Add the component as children of `RadioButtonGroup` and pass a `value` prop
   to it.
3. If you pass `isDisabled` to any of it's children, it'll be skipped in the
   keyboard navigation.

```jsx isManual=true
// Step 1: Create a component that accepts `isChecked` and `isDisabled` prop
const CustomRadio = React.forwardRef((props, ref) => {
  const { isChecked, isDisabled, value, ...rest } = props;
  return (
    <Button
      ref={ref}
      variantColor={isChecked ? "red" : "gray"}
      aria-checked={isChecked}
      role="radio"
      isDisabled={isDisabled}
      {...rest}
    />
  );
});

// Step 2: Add `CustomRadio` as children of `RadioButtonGroup`
function Example() {
  return (
    <RadioButtonGroup
      defaultValue="rad2"
      onChange={val => console.log(val)}
      isInline
    >
      <CustomRadio value="rad1">CustomRadio 1</CustomRadio>
      <CustomRadio value="rad2">CustomRadio 2</CustomRadio>
      <CustomRadio value="rad3">CustomRadio 3</CustomRadio>
      {/* This child will be skipped in keyboard navigation */}
      <CustomRadio isDisabled value="rad4">
        CustomRadio 4
      </CustomRadio>
    </RadioButtonGroup>
  );
}

render(<Example />);
```

## Props

| Name             | Type                 | Default | Description                                                                                                           |
| ---------------- | -------------------- | ------- | --------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| id               | `string`             |         | The id assigned to input field                                                                                        |
| name             | `string`             |         | The name of the input field in a radio (Useful for form submission)                                                   |
| value            | `string` or `number` |         | The value to be used in the radio input. This is the value that will be returned on form submission                   |
| variantColor     | `string`             |         | The color of the radio when it's checked. This should be one of the color keys in the theme (e.g."green", "red")      |
| defaultIsChecked | `boolean`            |         | If `true`, the radio will be initially checked                                                                        |
| isChecked        | `boolean`            |         | If `true`, the radio will be checked. You'll need to pass `onChange` to update it's value (since it's now controlled) |
| isFullWidth      | `boolean`            |         | If `true`, the radio should take up the full width of the parent                                                      |
| size             | `sm`, `md`, `lg`     | `md`    | The size (width and height) of the radio                                                                              |
| isDisabled       | `boolean`            |         | If `true`, the radio will be disabled                                                                                 |
| isInvalid        | `boolean`            |         | If `true`, the radio is marked as invalid. Changes style of unchecked state                                           |
| children         | `React.ReactNode`    |         | The children of the radio                                                                                             |
| onChange         | `function`           |         | Function called when the state of the radio changes                                                                   |
| onBlur           | `function`           |         | Function called when you blur out of the radio                                                                        |
| onFocus          | `function`           |         | Function called when the radio receive focus                                                                          |
| aria-label       | `string`             |         | An accessible label for the radio in event there's no visible label or `children` was passed                          |
| aria-labelledby  | `string`             |         | Id that points to the label for the radio in event no `children` was passed                                           |
