packages/chakra-ui-docs/pages/stack.mdx, before:

# Stack

Stack is a layout utility component that makes it easy to stack elements
together and apply a space between them. It composes the [Flex](/flex)
component.

## Import

```js
import { Stack } from "@chakra-ui/core";
```

By default, each item is stacked vertically. Stack clones it's children and
passes the spacing to them using `margin-bottom` or `margin-right`.

## Usage

```jsx isManual=true
function Feature({ title, desc, ...rest }) {
  return (
    <Box p={5} shadow="md" borderWidth="1px" {...rest}>
      <Heading fontSize="xl">{title}</Heading>
      <Text mt={4}>{desc}</Text>
    </Box>
  );
}

function StackEx() {
  return (
    <Stack spacing={8}>
      <Feature
        title="Plan Money"
        desc="The future can be even brighter but a goal without a plan is just a wish"
      />
      <Feature
        title="Save Money"
        desc="You deserve good things. With a whooping 10-15% interest rate per annum, grow your savings on your own terms with our completely automated process"
      />
    </Stack>
  );
}

render(<StackEx />);
```

### Stack items horizontally

Pass the `isInline` prop or `direction` and set it to `horizontal`.

Optionally, you can use `align` and `justify` to adjust the alignment and
distribution of the items.

```jsx isManual=true
function Feature({ title, desc, ...rest }) {
  return (
    <Box p={5} shadow="md" borderWidth="1px" flex="1" rounded="md" {...rest}>
      <Heading fontSize="xl">{title}</Heading>
      <Text mt={4}>{desc}</Text>
    </Box>
  );
}

function StackEx() {
  return (
    <Stack isInline spacing={8} align="center">
      <Feature
        title="Plan Money"
        desc="The future can be even brighter but a goal without a plan is just a wish"
      />
      <Feature
        title="Save Money"
        desc="You deserve good things. With a whooping 10-15% interest rate per annum, grow your savings."
      />
    </Stack>
  );
}

render(<StackEx />);
```

### Props

| Name                 | Type                       | Default | Description                                                                                                              |
| -------------------- | -------------------------- | ------- | ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------ |
| `isInline`           | `boolean`                  |         | If `true` the items will be stacked horizontally inline.                                                                 |
| `children`           | `React.ReactNode`          |         | The content of the stack.                                                                                                |
| `spacing`            | `StyledSystem.MarginProps` |         | The space between each stack item                                                                                        |
| `align`              | `string`                   |         | The alignment of the stack item. Similar to `align-items`                                                                |
| `justify`            | `string`                   |         | The distribution of the stack item. Similar to `justify-content`                                                         |
| `shouldWrapChildren` | `boolean`                  |         | If `true`, the children will be wrapped in a `Box` with `display: inline-block`, and the Box will take the spacing props |

Commit message:

docs(stack): add direction to prop table

packages/chakra-ui-docs/pages/stack.mdx, after:

# Stack

Stack is a layout utility component that makes it easy to stack elements
together and apply a space between them. It composes the [Flex](/flex)
component.

## Import

```js
import { Stack } from "@chakra-ui/core";
```

By default, each item is stacked vertically. Stack clones it's children and
passes the spacing to them using `margin-bottom` or `margin-right`.

## Usage

```jsx isManual=true
function Feature({ title, desc, ...rest }) {
  return (
    <Box p={5} shadow="md" borderWidth="1px" {...rest}>
      <Heading fontSize="xl">{title}</Heading>
      <Text mt={4}>{desc}</Text>
    </Box>
  );
}

function StackEx() {
  return (
    <Stack spacing={8}>
      <Feature
        title="Plan Money"
        desc="The future can be even brighter but a goal without a plan is just a wish"
      />
      <Feature
        title="Save Money"
        desc="You deserve good things. With a whooping 10-15% interest rate per annum, grow your savings on your own terms with our completely automated process"
      />
    </Stack>
  );
}

render(<StackEx />);
```

### Stack items horizontally

Pass the `isInline` prop or `direction` and set it to `horizontal`.

Optionally, you can use `align` and `justify` to adjust the alignment and
distribution of the items.

```jsx isManual=true
function Feature({ title, desc, ...rest }) {
  return (
    <Box p={5} shadow="md" borderWidth="1px" flex="1" rounded="md" {...rest}>
      <Heading fontSize="xl">{title}</Heading>
      <Text mt={4}>{desc}</Text>
    </Box>
  );
}

function StackEx() {
  return (
    <Stack isInline spacing={8} align="center">
      <Feature
        title="Plan Money"
        desc="The future can be even brighter but a goal without a plan is just a wish"
      />
      <Feature
        title="Save Money"
        desc="You deserve good things. With a whooping 10-15% interest rate per annum, grow your savings."
      />
    </Stack>
  );
}

render(<StackEx />);
```

### Props

| Name                 | Type                       | Default | Description                                                                                                              |
| -------------------- | -------------------------- | ------- | ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------ |
| `isInline`           | `boolean`                  |         | If `true` the items will be stacked horizontally inline.                                                                 |
| `direction`          | `horizontal`, `vertical`   |         | The direction to stack the items.                                                                                        |
| `children`           | `React.ReactNode`          |         | The content of the stack.                                                                                                |
| `spacing`            | `StyledSystem.MarginProps` |         | The space between each stack item                                                                                        |
| `align`              | `string`                   |         | The alignment of the stack item. Similar to `align-items`                                                                |
| `justify`            | `string`                   |         | The distribution of the stack item. Similar to `justify-content`                                                         |
| `shouldWrapChildren` | `boolean`                  |         | If `true`, the children will be wrapped in a `Box` with `display: inline-block`, and the Box will take the spacing props |
