packages/chakra-ui-docs/pages/theme.mdx, before:

import { Box, Flex, Grid, useTheme } from "@chakra-ui/core";
import {
  ColorPalette,
  ColorPalettes,
  ColorWrapper,
} from "../components/ColorPalette";

# Theme

The theme object is where you define your application's color palette, type
scale, font stacks, breakpoints, border radius values, and more. Theming with
Chakra UI is based on the
[Styled System Theme Specification](https://system-ui.com/theme/)

## Colors

Add a `theme.colors` object to provide colors for your project. By default these
colors can be referenced by the `color`, `borderColor`, and `backgroundColor`,
`fill`, `stroke`, styles.

We recommend adding palette that go from `50` - `900`. Use tools like
[Coolors](https://coolors.co/app) or [Palx](https://palx.jxnblk.com) to generate
these palette.

```js
// theme.js
export default {
  colors: {
    transparent: "transparent",
    black: "#000",
    white: "#fff",
    gray: {
      50: "#f7fafc",
      // ...
      900: "#1a202c",
    },
    // ...
  },
};
```

Chakra provide a sensible
[default theme](https://github.com/chakra-ui/chakra-ui/blob/master/packages/chakra-ui/src/theme)
inspired by Tailwind CSS, but you can customize it to fit your design.

### Black & White

<ColorWrapper>
  <ColorPalette color="black" name="Black" />
  <ColorPalette color="white" name="White" />
  <div />
</ColorWrapper>

### Gray

<ColorWrapper>
  <ColorPalettes color="gray" />
</ColorWrapper>

## Red

<ColorWrapper>
  <ColorPalettes color="red" />
</ColorWrapper>

## Orange

<ColorWrapper>
  <ColorPalettes color="orange" />
</ColorWrapper>

## Yellow

<ColorWrapper>
  <ColorPalettes color="yellow" />
</ColorWrapper>

## Green

<ColorWrapper>
  <ColorPalettes color="green" />
</ColorWrapper>

## Teal

<ColorWrapper>
  <ColorPalettes color="teal" />
</ColorWrapper>

## Blue

<ColorWrapper>
  <ColorPalettes color="blue" />
</ColorWrapper>

## Cyan

<ColorWrapper>
  <ColorPalettes color="cyan" />
</ColorWrapper>

## Purple

<ColorWrapper>
  <ColorPalettes color="purple" />
</ColorWrapper>

## Pink

<ColorWrapper>
  <ColorPalettes color="pink" />
</ColorWrapper>

## Typography

To manage Typography options, the theme object supports the following keys:

- `fonts` (font families)
- `fontSizes`
- `fontWeights`
- `lineHeights`
- `letterSpacings`

```js
// example theme object
export default {
  colors: {...},
  fonts: {
    body: "system-ui, sans-serif",
    heading: "Georgia, serif",
    mono: "Menlo, monospace",
  },
  fontSizes: {
    xs: "12px",
    sm: "14px",
    md: "16px",
    lg: "18px",
    xl: "20px",
    "2xl": "24px",
    "3xl": "28px",
    "4xl": "36px",
    "5xl": "48px",
    "6xl": "64px",
  },
  fontWeights: {
    normal: 400,
    medium: 500,
    bold: 700,
  },
  lineHeights: {
    normal: "normal",
    none: "1",
    shorter: "1.25",
    short: "1.375",
    base: "1.5",
    tall: "1.625",
    taller: "2",
  },
  letterSpacings: {
    tighter: "-0.05em",
    tight: "-0.025em",
    normal: "0",
    wide: "0.025em",
    wider: "0.05em",
    widest: "0.1em",
  },
};
```

## Breakpoints

To configure the default breakpoints used in responsive array values, add a
breakpoints array to your theme. These values will be used to generate
mobile-first (i.e. min-width) media queries, which can then be used to apply
responsive styles.

> For example, you can write `<Box fontSize={["14px", "16px"]}/>` to make the
> fontSize responsive.

```js
// theme.js
export default {
  breakpoints: ["30em", "48em", "62em", "80em"],
};
```

## Spacing

The `space` key allows you to customize the global spacing and sizing scale for
your project. By default these spacing value can be referenced by the `padding`,
`margin`, and `top`, `left`, `right`, `bottom` styles.

```js
export default {
  space: {
    px: "1px",
    "0": "0",
    "1": "0.25rem",
    "2": "0.5rem",
    "3": "0.75rem",
    "4": "1rem",
    "5": "1.25rem",
    "6": "1.5rem",
    "8": "2rem",
    "10": "2.5rem",
    "12": "3rem",
    "16": "4rem",
    "20": "5rem",
    "24": "6rem",
    "32": "8rem",
    "40": "10rem",
    "48": "12rem",
    "56": "14rem",
    "64": "16rem",
  },
};
```

By default, Chakra includes a comprehensive numeric spacing scale inspired by
Tailwind CSS. The values are proportional, so 1 spacing unit is equal to
`0.25rem`, which translates to `4px` by default in common browsers.

> **Mental model:** If you need a spacing of `40px`, divide it by `4`. That'll
> give you `10`. Then use it in your component.

| Name | Space   | Pixels |                                   |
| ---- | ------- | ------ | --------------------------------- |
| 0    | 0       | 0px    | <Box bg="pink.200" h="4" w="0"/>  |
| px   | 1px     | 1px    | <Box bg="pink.200" h="4" w="px"/> |
| 1    | 0.25rem | 4px    | <Box bg="pink.200" h="4" w="1"/>  |
| 2    | 0.5rem  | 8px    | <Box bg="pink.200" h="4" w="2"/>  |
| 3    | 0.75rem | 12px   | <Box bg="pink.200" h="4" w="3"/>  |
| 4    | 1rem    | 16px   | <Box bg="pink.200" h="4" w="4"/>  |
| 5    | 1.25rem | 20px   | <Box bg="pink.200" h="4" w="5"/>  |
| 6    | 1.5rem  | 24px   | <Box bg="pink.200" h="4" w="6"/>  |
| 8    | 2rem    | 32px   | <Box bg="pink.200" h="4" w="8"/>  |
| 10   | 2.5rem  | 40px   | <Box bg="pink.200" h="4" w="10"/> |
| 12   | 3rem    | 48px   | <Box bg="pink.200" h="4" w="12"/> |
| 16   | 4rem    | 64px   | <Box bg="pink.200" h="4" w="16"/> |
| 20   | 5rem    | 80px   | <Box bg="pink.200" h="4" w="20"/> |
| 24   | 6rem    | 96px   | <Box bg="pink.200" h="4" w="24"/> |
| 32   | 8rem    | 128px  | <Box bg="pink.200" h="4" w="32"/> |
| 40   | 10rem   | 160px  | <Box bg="pink.200" h="4" w="40"/> |
| 48   | 12rem   | 192px  | <Box bg="pink.200" h="4" w="48"/> |
| 56   | 14rem   | 224px  | <Box bg="pink.200" h="4" w="56"/> |
| 64   | 16rem   | 256px  | <Box bg="pink.200" h="4" w="64"/> |

## Sizes

The `sizes` key allows you to customize the global sizeing of components you
build for your project. By default these spacing value can be referenced by the
`width`, `height`, and `maxWidth`, `minWidth`, `maxHeight`, `minHeight` styles.

```js
export default {
  sizes: {
    ...theme.space,
    full: "100%",
    "3xs": "14rem",
    "2xs": "16rem",
    xs: "20rem",
    sm: "24rem",
    md: "28rem",
    lg: "32rem",
    xl: "36rem",
    "2xl": "42rem",
    "3xl": "48rem",
    "4xl": "56rem",
    "5xl": "64rem",
    "6xl": "72rem",
  },
};
```

For a component like this: `<Box w={4} h={3} />` will generate an empty `div`
with width set to `1rem` or `16px` and height set to `0.75rem` or `12px`

## Z-Index

Chakra provides some zIndex values out of the box to control the stacking order
of components.

```js
export default {
  zIndices: {
    hide: -1,
    auto: "auto",
    base: 0,
    docked: 10,
    dropdown: 1000,
    sticky: 1100,
    banner: 1200,
    overlay: 1300,
    modal: 1400,
    popover: 1500,
    skipLink: 1600,
    toast: 1700,
    tooltip: 1800,
  },
};
```

## Icons

All Chakra icons are stored in the theme object under the `icons` key.
[See the icons](/icon#all-icons).

You can extend this object to add your own icons. Here are the steps:

- Export the icon's `svg` from Figma, Sketch, etc.
- Use a tool like [SvgOmg](https://svgomg.firebaseapp.com) to reduce the size
  and minify the markup.
- Add the icon to the theme object.

> Add the `fill=currentColor` attribute to the `path` or `g` so that when you
> this `<Icon color="gray.200"/>`, it works correctly.

```jsx live=false

// Step 1: Each icon should be stored as an object of `path` and `viewBox`
const customIcons = {
  icon1: {
    path: <path fill="currentColor" d="..." />,
    // If the icon's viewBox is `0 0 24 24`, you can ignore `viewBox`
    viewBox: "0 0 40 40",
  },
  icon2: {
    path: (
      <g fill="currentColor">
        <path d="..."/>
      </g>
    )
  }
};

// Step 2: Add the custom icon to the theme
const customTheme = {
  ...theme,
  icons: {
    ...theme.icons,
    ...customIcons,
  }
}

// Step 3: Pass the new theme to the ThemeProvider

<ThemeProvider theme={customTheme}>
  {/* app goes here */}
</ThemeProvider>

// Step 4: Now you can do this
<Icon name="icon1" color="green.200"/>
```

## Configuration reference

Except for breakpoints, colors, and spacing, all of the keys in the theme object
map to one of Chakra's core theme. All of these keys can be replaced or
extended.

See the <a href="https://styled-system.com/table" target="_blank">full reference
table</a> of properties.

Commit message:

docs: add note about root font size

packages/chakra-ui-docs/pages/theme.mdx, after:

import { Box, Flex, Grid, useTheme } from "@chakra-ui/core";
import {
  ColorPalette,
  ColorPalettes,
  ColorWrapper,
} from "../components/ColorPalette";

# Theme

The theme object is where you define your application's color palette, type
scale, font stacks, breakpoints, border radius values, and more. Theming with
Chakra UI is based on the
[Styled System Theme Specification](https://system-ui.com/theme/)

## Colors

Add a `theme.colors` object to provide colors for your project. By default these
colors can be referenced by the `color`, `borderColor`, and `backgroundColor`,
`fill`, `stroke`, styles.

We recommend adding palette that go from `50` - `900`. Use tools like
[Coolors](https://coolors.co/app) or [Palx](https://palx.jxnblk.com) to generate
these palette.

```js
// theme.js
export default {
  colors: {
    transparent: "transparent",
    black: "#000",
    white: "#fff",
    gray: {
      50: "#f7fafc",
      // ...
      900: "#1a202c",
    },
    // ...
  },
};
```

Chakra provide a sensible
[default theme](https://github.com/chakra-ui/chakra-ui/blob/master/packages/chakra-ui/src/theme)
inspired by Tailwind CSS, but you can customize it to fit your design.

### Black & White

<ColorWrapper>
  <ColorPalette color="black" name="Black" />
  <ColorPalette color="white" name="White" />
  <div />
</ColorWrapper>

### Gray

<ColorWrapper>
  <ColorPalettes color="gray" />
</ColorWrapper>

## Red

<ColorWrapper>
  <ColorPalettes color="red" />
</ColorWrapper>

## Orange

<ColorWrapper>
  <ColorPalettes color="orange" />
</ColorWrapper>

## Yellow

<ColorWrapper>
  <ColorPalettes color="yellow" />
</ColorWrapper>

## Green

<ColorWrapper>
  <ColorPalettes color="green" />
</ColorWrapper>

## Teal

<ColorWrapper>
  <ColorPalettes color="teal" />
</ColorWrapper>

## Blue

<ColorWrapper>
  <ColorPalettes color="blue" />
</ColorWrapper>

## Cyan

<ColorWrapper>
  <ColorPalettes color="cyan" />
</ColorWrapper>

## Purple

<ColorWrapper>
  <ColorPalettes color="purple" />
</ColorWrapper>

## Pink

<ColorWrapper>
  <ColorPalettes color="pink" />
</ColorWrapper>

## Typography

To manage Typography options, the theme object supports the following keys:

- `fonts` (font families)
- `fontSizes`
- `fontWeights`
- `lineHeights`
- `letterSpacings`

```js
// example theme object
export default {
  colors: {...},
  fonts: {
    body: "system-ui, sans-serif",
    heading: "Georgia, serif",
    mono: "Menlo, monospace",
  },
  fontSizes: {
    xs: "12px",
    sm: "14px",
    md: "16px",
    lg: "18px",
    xl: "20px",
    "2xl": "24px",
    "3xl": "28px",
    "4xl": "36px",
    "5xl": "48px",
    "6xl": "64px",
  },
  fontWeights: {
    normal: 400,
    medium: 500,
    bold: 700,
  },
  lineHeights: {
    normal: "normal",
    none: "1",
    shorter: "1.25",
    short: "1.375",
    base: "1.5",
    tall: "1.625",
    taller: "2",
  },
  letterSpacings: {
    tighter: "-0.05em",
    tight: "-0.025em",
    normal: "0",
    wide: "0.025em",
    wider: "0.05em",
    widest: "0.1em",
  },
};
```

## Breakpoints

To configure the default breakpoints used in responsive array values, add a
breakpoints array to your theme. These values will be used to generate
mobile-first (i.e. min-width) media queries, which can then be used to apply
responsive styles.

> For example, you can write `<Box fontSize={["14px", "16px"]}/>` to make the
> fontSize responsive.

```js
// theme.js
export default {
  breakpoints: ["30em", "48em", "62em", "80em"],
};
```

## Spacing

The `space` key allows you to customize the global spacing and sizing scale for
your project. By default these spacing value can be referenced by the `padding`,
`margin`, and `top`, `left`, `right`, `bottom` styles.

```js
export default {
  space: {
    px: "1px",
    "0": "0",
    "1": "0.25rem",
    "2": "0.5rem",
    "3": "0.75rem",
    "4": "1rem",
    "5": "1.25rem",
    "6": "1.5rem",
    "8": "2rem",
    "10": "2.5rem",
    "12": "3rem",
    "16": "4rem",
    "20": "5rem",
    "24": "6rem",
    "32": "8rem",
    "40": "10rem",
    "48": "12rem",
    "56": "14rem",
    "64": "16rem",
  },
};
```

By default, Chakra includes a comprehensive numeric spacing scale inspired by
Tailwind CSS. The values are proportional, so 1 spacing unit is equal to
`0.25rem`, which translates to `4px` by default in common browsers.

> **Mental model:** If you need a spacing of `40px`, divide it by `4`. That'll
> give you `10`. Then use it in your component.

| Name | Space (in `rem`) | Pixels |                                   |
| ---- | ---------------- | ------ | --------------------------------- |
| 0    | 0                | 0px    | <Box bg="pink.200" h="4" w="0"/>  |
| px   | 1px              | 1px    | <Box bg="pink.200" h="4" w="px"/> |
| 1    | 0.25rem          | 4px    | <Box bg="pink.200" h="4" w="1"/>  |
| 2    | 0.5rem           | 8px    | <Box bg="pink.200" h="4" w="2"/>  |
| 3    | 0.75rem          | 12px   | <Box bg="pink.200" h="4" w="3"/>  |
| 4    | 1rem             | 16px   | <Box bg="pink.200" h="4" w="4"/>  |
| 5    | 1.25rem          | 20px   | <Box bg="pink.200" h="4" w="5"/>  |
| 6    | 1.5rem           | 24px   | <Box bg="pink.200" h="4" w="6"/>  |
| 8    | 2rem             | 32px   | <Box bg="pink.200" h="4" w="8"/>  |
| 10   | 2.5rem           | 40px   | <Box bg="pink.200" h="4" w="10"/> |
| 12   | 3rem             | 48px   | <Box bg="pink.200" h="4" w="12"/> |
| 16   | 4rem             | 64px   | <Box bg="pink.200" h="4" w="16"/> |
| 20   | 5rem             | 80px   | <Box bg="pink.200" h="4" w="20"/> |
| 24   | 6rem             | 96px   | <Box bg="pink.200" h="4" w="24"/> |
| 32   | 8rem             | 128px  | <Box bg="pink.200" h="4" w="32"/> |
| 40   | 10rem            | 160px  | <Box bg="pink.200" h="4" w="40"/> |
| 48   | 12rem            | 192px  | <Box bg="pink.200" h="4" w="48"/> |
| 56   | 14rem            | 224px  | <Box bg="pink.200" h="4" w="56"/> |
| 64   | 16rem            | 256px  | <Box bg="pink.200" h="4" w="64"/> |

**Note:** This is `rem` units are relative to the root or html font size which
is `16px` by default. Chakra leaves this value unaltered.

Changing the root font size will make the `pixel` values above altered and
you'll need to calculate the corresponding pixel value yourself.

The simple calcuation is `remValue * rootFontSize = pixelValue`

## Sizes

The `sizes` key allows you to customize the global sizeing of components you
build for your project. By default these spacing value can be referenced by the
`width`, `height`, and `maxWidth`, `minWidth`, `maxHeight`, `minHeight` styles.

```js
export default {
  sizes: {
    ...theme.space,
    full: "100%",
    "3xs": "14rem",
    "2xs": "16rem",
    xs: "20rem",
    sm: "24rem",
    md: "28rem",
    lg: "32rem",
    xl: "36rem",
    "2xl": "42rem",
    "3xl": "48rem",
    "4xl": "56rem",
    "5xl": "64rem",
    "6xl": "72rem",
  },
};
```

For a component like this: `<Box w={4} h={3} />` will generate an empty `div`
with width set to `1rem` or `16px` and height set to `0.75rem` or `12px`

## Z-Index

Chakra provides some zIndex values out of the box to control the stacking order
of components.

```js
export default {
  zIndices: {
    hide: -1,
    auto: "auto",
    base: 0,
    docked: 10,
    dropdown: 1000,
    sticky: 1100,
    banner: 1200,
    overlay: 1300,
    modal: 1400,
    popover: 1500,
    skipLink: 1600,
    toast: 1700,
    tooltip: 1800,
  },
};
```

## Icons

All Chakra icons are stored in the theme object under the `icons` key.
[See the icons](/icon#all-icons).

You can extend this object to add your own icons. Here are the steps:

- Export the icon's `svg` from Figma, Sketch, etc.
- Use a tool like [SvgOmg](https://svgomg.firebaseapp.com) to reduce the size
  and minify the markup.
- Add the icon to the theme object.

> Add the `fill=currentColor` attribute to the `path` or `g` so that when you
> this `<Icon color="gray.200"/>`, it works correctly.

```jsx live=false

// Step 1: Each icon should be stored as an object of `path` and `viewBox`
const customIcons = {
  icon1: {
    path: <path fill="currentColor" d="..." />,
    // If the icon's viewBox is `0 0 24 24`, you can ignore `viewBox`
    viewBox: "0 0 40 40",
  },
  icon2: {
    path: (
      <g fill="currentColor">
        <path d="..."/>
      </g>
    )
  }
};

// Step 2: Add the custom icon to the theme
const customTheme = {
  ...theme,
  icons: {
    ...theme.icons,
    ...customIcons,
  }
}

// Step 3: Pass the new theme to the ThemeProvider

<ThemeProvider theme={customTheme}>
  {/* app goes here */}
</ThemeProvider>

// Step 4: Now you can do this
<Icon name="icon1" color="green.200"/>
```

## Configuration reference

Except for breakpoints, colors, and spacing, all of the keys in the theme object
map to one of Chakra's core theme. All of these keys can be replaced or
extended.

See the <a href="https://styled-system.com/table" target="_blank">full reference
table</a> of properties.
