packages/chakra-ui-docs/pages/toast.mdx, before:

# Toast

The toast is used to show alerts on top of an overlay. The toast will close
itself when the close button is clicked, or after a timeout — the default is 5
seconds. The toast component is used to give feeback to users after an action
has taken place.

Toasts can be configured to appear at either the top or the bottom of an
application window, and it is possible to have more than one toast onscreen at a
time.

## Import

```js
import { useToast } from "@chakra-ui/core";
```

## Usage

```jsx
function ToastExample() {
  const toast = useToast();
  return (
    <Button
      onClick={() =>
        toast({
          title: "Account created.",
          description: "We've created your account for you.",
          status: "success",
          duration: 9000,
          isClosable: true,
        })
      }
    >
      Show Toast
    </Button>
  );
}
```

## Custom component

Display a custom component instead of the default Toast UI.

```jsx
function Example() {
  const toast = useToast();
  return (
    <Button
      onClick={() =>
        toast({
          position: "bottom-left",
          render: () => (
            <Box m={3} color="white" p={3} bg="blue.500">
              Hello World
            </Box>
          ),
        })
      }
    >
      Show Toast
    </Button>
  );
}
```

## Success

```jsx
function Example() {
  const toast = useToast();
  return (
    <Button
      onClick={() =>
        toast({
          title: "Account created.",
          description: "We've created your account for you.",
          status: "success",
          duration: 9000,
          isClosable: true,
        })
      }
    >
      Show Success Toast
    </Button>
  );
}
```

## Warning

```jsx
function Example() {
  const toast = useToast();
  return (
    <Button
      onClick={() =>
        toast({
          title: "Warning.",
          description: "This is a warning.",
          status: "warning",
          duration: 9000,
          isClosable: true,
        })
      }
    >
      Show Warning Toast
    </Button>
  );
}
```

## Error

```jsx
function ErrorToast() {
  const toast = useToast();
  return (
    <Button
      onClick={() =>
        toast({
          title: "An error occurred.",
          description: "Unable to create user account.",
          status: "error",
          duration: 9000,
          isClosable: true,
        })
      }
    >
      Show Error Toast
    </Button>
  );
}
```

## Position

Using the `position` prop you can adjust where your toast will be popup from.

```jsx
function PositionExample() {
  const toast = useToast();
  return (
    <Button
      onClick={() =>
        toast({
          position: "bottom-left",
          title: "Account created.",
          description: "We've created your account for you.",
          status: "success",
          duration: 9000,
          isClosable: true,
        })
      }
    >
      Show Toast
    </Button>
  );
}
```

## Props

| Name          | Type                                                                                                                                                                           | Default  | Description                                 |
| ------------- | ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------ | -------- | ------------------------------------------- |
| `title`       | `boolean`                                                                                                                                                                      |          | The title of the toast.                     |
| `isClosable`  | `boolean`                                                                                                                                                                      | `false`  | If `true` adds a close button to the toast. |
| `onClose`     | `function`                                                                                                                                                                     |          | Callback function to close the toast.       |
| `description` | `string`                                                                                                                                                                       |          | The description of the toast.               |
| `status`      | `success`, `danger`, `warning`, `info`                                                                                                                                         |          | The status of the toast.                    |
| `position`    | `auto-start`, `auto`, `auto-end`, `top-start`, `top`, `top-end`, `right-start`, `right`, `right-end`, `bottom-end`, `bottom`, `bottom-start`, `left-end`, `left`, `left-start` | `bottom` | Position the toast will popup out from.     |

Commit message:

Update Toast render typing to be optional

packages/chakra-ui-docs/pages/toast.mdx, after:

# Toast

The toast is used to show alerts on top of an overlay. The toast will close
itself when the close button is clicked, or after a timeout — the default is 5
seconds. The toast component is used to give feeback to users after an action
has taken place.

Toasts can be configured to appear at either the top or the bottom of an
application window, and it is possible to have more than one toast onscreen at a
time.

## Import

```js
import { useToast } from "@chakra-ui/core";
```

## Usage

```jsx
function ToastExample() {
  const toast = useToast();
  return (
    <Button
      onClick={() =>
        toast({
          title: "Account created.",
          description: "We've created your account for you.",
          status: "success",
          duration: 9000,
          isClosable: true,
        })
      }
    >
      Show Toast
    </Button>
  );
}
```

## Custom component

Display a custom component instead of the default Toast UI.

```jsx
function Example() {
  const toast = useToast();
  return (
    <Button
      onClick={() =>
        toast({
          position: "bottom-left",
          render: () => (
            <Box m={3} color="white" p={3} bg="blue.500">
              Hello World
            </Box>
          ),
        })
      }
    >
      Show Toast
    </Button>
  );
}
```

## Success

```jsx
function Example() {
  const toast = useToast();
  return (
    <Button
      onClick={() =>
        toast({
          title: "Account created.",
          description: "We've created your account for you.",
          status: "success",
          duration: 9000,
          isClosable: true,
        })
      }
    >
      Show Success Toast
    </Button>
  );
}
```

## Warning

```jsx
function Example() {
  const toast = useToast();
  return (
    <Button
      onClick={() =>
        toast({
          title: "Warning.",
          description: "This is a warning.",
          status: "warning",
          duration: 9000,
          isClosable: true,
        })
      }
    >
      Show Warning Toast
    </Button>
  );
}
```

## Error

```jsx
function ErrorToast() {
  const toast = useToast();
  return (
    <Button
      onClick={() =>
        toast({
          title: "An error occurred.",
          description: "Unable to create user account.",
          status: "error",
          duration: 9000,
          isClosable: true,
        })
      }
    >
      Show Error Toast
    </Button>
  );
}
```

## Position

Using the `position` prop you can adjust where your toast will be popup from.

```jsx
function PositionExample() {
  const toast = useToast();
  return (
    <Button
      onClick={() =>
        toast({
          position: "bottom-left",
          title: "Account created.",
          description: "We've created your account for you.",
          status: "success",
          duration: 9000,
          isClosable: true,
        })
      }
    >
      Show Toast
    </Button>
  );
}
```

## Props

| Name          | Type                                                                    | Default  | Description                                                          |
| ------------- | ----------------------------------------------------------------------- | -------- | -------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| `title`       | `boolean`                                                               |          | The title of the toast.                                              |
| `isClosable`  | `boolean`                                                               | `false`  | If `true` adds a close button to the toast.                          |
| `onClose`     | `function`                                                              |          | Callback function to close the toast.                                |
| `description` | `string`                                                                |          | The description of the toast.                                        |
| `status`      | `success`, `danger`, `warning`, `info`                                  |          | The status of the toast.                                             |
| `duration`    | `number`                                                                | `5000ms` | Duration before dismiss in milliseconds, or `null` to never dismiss. |
| `position`    | `top`, `top-left`, `top-right`, `bottom`, `bottom-left`, `bottom-right` | `bottom` | Position the toast will popup out from.                              |
| `render`      | `(props: {onClose:() => void, id: string}) => React.ReactNode`          |          | The description of the toast.                                        |
