packages/chakra-ui-docs/pages/tooltip.mdx, before:

# Tooltip

A tooltip is a brief, informative message that appears when a user interacts
with an element. Tooltips are usually initiated in one of two ways: through a
mouse-hover gesture or through a keyboard-hover gesture.

The Tooltip component follows the
[WAI-ARIA](https://www.w3.org/TR/wai-aria-practices/#tooltip) Tooltip Pattern.

## Import

```js
import { Tooltip } from "@chakra-ui/core";
```

## Usage

```jsx
<Tooltip label="Hey, I'm here!">Hover me</Tooltip>
```

### With an icon

```jsx
<Tooltip label="Welcome home" placement="bottom">
  <Icon name="phone" />
</Tooltip>
```

### With arrow

```jsx
<Tooltip showArrow label="Search places" placement="top">
  <Icon name="search" />
</Tooltip>
```

### Tooltip with focusable content

If the children of the tooltip is a focusable element, the tooltip will show
when you focus or hover on the element, and will hide when you blur or move
cursor out of the element.

```jsx
<Tooltip showArrow label="Search places" placement="top" bg="red.600">
  <Button>Button</Button>
</Tooltip>
```

## Placement

Using the `placement` prop you can adjust where your tooltip will be displayed.

```jsx
<Stack shouldWrapChildren spacing={6}>
  <Tooltip label="Right end" placement="right-end">
    <Button variant="outline">Right-End</Button>
  </Tooltip>

  <Tooltip label="Left" placement="left">
    <Button variant="outline">Left</Button>
  </Tooltip>

  <Tooltip label="Auto start" placement="auto-start">
    <Button variant="outline">Auto-Start</Button>
  </Tooltip>

  <Tooltip label="Auto end" placement="auto-end">
    <Button variant="outline">Auto-End</Button>
  </Tooltip>

  <Tooltip label="Left end" placement="left-end">
    <Button variant="outline">Left-End</Button>
  </Tooltip>
</Stack>
```

## Props

| Name            | Type                                                                                                                                                                           | Default  | Description                                                                                                  |
| --------------- | ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------ | -------- | ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------ |
| `isOpen`        | `boolean`                                                                                                                                                                      | `false`  | If `true`, the tooltip is shown.                                                                             |
| `defaultIsOpen` | `boolean`                                                                                                                                                                      | `false`  | If `true`, the tooltip is shown by default.                                                                  |
| `bg`            | `string`                                                                                                                                                                       |          | The background color of the tooltip.                                                                         |
| `color`         | `string`                                                                                                                                                                       |          | The color of tooltip label.                                                                                  |
| `label`         | `string`                                                                                                                                                                       |          | The label of the tooltip.                                                                                    |
| `timeout`       | `number`                                                                                                                                                                       | `100`    | Determines how long, in milliseconds tooltip is to be shown.                                                 |
| `placement`     | `auto-start`, `auto`, `auto-end`, `top-start`, `top`, `top-end`, `right-start`, `right`, `right-end`, `bottom-end`, `bottom`, `bottom-start`, `left-end`, `left`, `left-start` | `bottom` | Position the tooltip relative to the trigger element as well as surrounding elements.                        |
| `children`      | `React.ReactNode`                                                                                                                                                              |          | The children of the tooltip.                                                                                 |
| `showArrow`     | `boolean`                                                                                                                                                                      | `false`  | If `true` display an arrow tip on the tooltip. This is displayed relative to the `placement` of the tooltip. |
| `closeOnClick`  | `boolean`                                                                                                                                                                      | `false`  | If `true` hide the tooltip, when it is clicked.                                                              |
| `onOpenChange`  | `function`                                                                                                                                                                     |          | Function called when the value controlling the opening/closing of the tooltip changes.                       |

Commit message:

Change lerna client to Yarn

packages/chakra-ui-docs/pages/tooltip.mdx, after:

# Tooltip

A tooltip is a brief, informative message that appears when a user interacts
with an element. Tooltips are usually initiated in one of two ways: through a
mouse-hover gesture or through a keyboard-hover gesture.

The Tooltip component follows the
[WAI-ARIA](https://www.w3.org/TR/wai-aria-practices/#tooltip) Tooltip Pattern.

## Import

```js
import { Tooltip } from "@chakra-ui/core";
```

## Usage

If the `children` of Tooltip is a string, we wrap with in a `span` with
`tabIndex` set to `0`, to ensure it meets the accessibility requirements.

```jsx
<Tooltip label="Hey, I'm here!">Hover me</Tooltip>
```

### With an icon

```jsx
<Tooltip label="Welcome home" placement="bottom">
  <Icon name="phone" />
</Tooltip>
```

### With arrow

```jsx
<Tooltip hasArrow label="Search places" placement="top">
  <Icon name="search" />
</Tooltip>
```

### Tooltip with focusable content

If the children of the tooltip is a focusable element, the tooltip will show
when you focus or hover on the element, and will hide when you blur or move
cursor out of the element.

```jsx
<Tooltip showArrow label="Search places" placement="top" bg="red.600">
  <Button>Button</Button>
</Tooltip>
```

## Placement

Using the `placement` prop you can adjust where your tooltip will be displayed.

```jsx
<Stack shouldWrapChildren spacing={6}>
  <Tooltip label="Right end" placement="right-end">
    <Button variant="outline">Right-End</Button>
  </Tooltip>

  <Tooltip label="Left" placement="left">
    <Button variant="outline">Left</Button>
  </Tooltip>

  <Tooltip label="Auto start" placement="auto-start">
    <Button variant="outline">Auto-Start</Button>
  </Tooltip>

  <Tooltip label="Auto end" placement="auto-end">
    <Button variant="outline">Auto-End</Button>
  </Tooltip>

  <Tooltip label="Left end" placement="left-end">
    <Button variant="outline">Left-End</Button>
  </Tooltip>
</Stack>
```

## Props

| Name                 | Type                 | Default  | Description                                                                           |
| -------------------- | -------------------- | -------- | ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| `isOpen`             | `boolean`            |          | If `true`, the tooltip is shown.                                                      |
| `defaultIsOpen`      | `boolean`            |          | If `true`, the tooltip is initially shown.                                            |
| `label`              | `string`             |          | The label of the tooltip.                                                             |
| `aria-label`         | `string`             |          | An alternate label for screen readers.                                                |
| `placement`          | `PopperJS.Placement` | `bottom` | Position the tooltip relative to the trigger element as well as surrounding elements. |
| `children`           | `React.ReactNode`    |          | The `ReactNode` to be used as the trigger of the tooltip.                             |
| `hasArrow`           | `boolean`            |          | If `true` display an arrow tip on the tooltip.                                        |
| `showDelay`          | `number`             |          | The delay in `ms` for the tooltip to show                                             |
| `hideDelay`          | `number`             |          | The delay in `ms` for the tooltip to hide                                             |
| `closeOnClick`       | `boolean`            |          | If `true` hide the tooltip, when the trigger is clicked.                              |
| `shouldWrapChildren` | `boolean`            |          | If `true`, the tooltip will wrap the children in a `span` with `tabIndex=0`           |
| `onOpen`             | `function`           |          | Function called when the tooltip shows.                                               |
| `onClose`            | `function`           |          | Function called when the tooltip hides.                                               |
