website/docs/getting-started.mdx, before:

---
title: "Installation"
description:
  "Install Chakra UI and its peer dependencies. Create a theme object to include
  custom color, typography, and layout values. Chakra UI comes with a default
  theme, so this step is optional."
order: 1
---

# Getting Started

1. Install Chakra UI

```bash
npm i @chakra-ui/core

# or

yarn add @chakra-ui/core
```

<carbon-ad></carbon-ad>

2. Install the default theme

Chakra has prepared a default theme for you that you can modify or extends. The
theme contains specifications for the fonts, font-sizes, colors, etc.

There are two ways to get the theme:

**From NPM:** This is the recommended way to install the theme. Install the
`@chakra-ui/theme` package.

```sh
npm i @chakra-ui/theme

# or

yarn add @chakra-ui/theme
```

**From Chakra CLI:** This is useful if you plan to completely "eject" from
chakra's theme and you want to custom most component styles.

```sh
# clone the javascript theme
npx chakra-cli init --theme

# clone the typescript theme
npx chakra-cli init --theme --ts

# specify folder to clone theme to
npx chakra-cli init --theme --ts -o src
```

This command will copy the default theme to your project in the specified
directory, default is `chakra/`. There you can update all the tokens to match
your brand or design requirements.

3. Add the provider

For Chakra to work correctly, you need to setup the global provider and add
browser css reset. At the root of your application, here's what you need do:

```jsx live=false
import * as React from "react"
import { ChakraProvider, CSSReset } from "@chakra-ui/core"

// Use at the root of your app
function App() {
  return (
    <ChakraProvider>
      <CSSReset />
      <App />
    </ChakraProvider>
  )
}
```

> - If you use Next.js, you need to set this up in `pages/_app.js`
> - If you use Gatsby, kindly install the `gatsby-plugin-chakra-ui`. It does it
>   automatically for you.
> - If you use Create React App, you need to set this up in `index.js`

<br />

4. Consume the theme

Assuming you have the default theme installed or cloned. Add the `theme` to the
`ChakraProvider`.

```jsx live=false
import * as React from "react"
import { ChakraProvider, CSSReset } from "@chakra-ui/core"
import theme from "@chakra-ui/theme"
// or
// import theme from "./chakra"

// Use at the root of your app
function App() {
  return (
    <ChakraProvider theme={theme}>
      <CSSReset />
      <App />
    </ChakraProvider>
  )
}
```

That's it, you're good to go!

## Contributing

Please see our [contribution guidelines](/contributing) to learn how you can
contribute to this project.

Commit message:

docs: update getting started and migration

website/docs/getting-started.mdx, after:

---
title: "Installation"
description:
  "Install Chakra UI and its peer dependencies. Create a theme object to include
  custom color, typography, and layout values. Chakra UI comes with a default
  theme, so this step is optional."
order: 1
---

# Getting Started

1. Install Chakra UI

```bash
npm i @chakra-ui/core

# or

yarn add @chakra-ui/core
```

<carbon-ad></carbon-ad>

2. Install the default theme

Chakra has prepared a default theme for you that you can modify or extends. The
theme contains specifications for the fonts, font-sizes, colors, etc.

There are two ways to get the theme:

**From NPM:** This is the recommended way to install the theme. Install the
`@chakra-ui/theme` package.

```sh
npm i @chakra-ui/theme

# or

yarn add @chakra-ui/theme
```

**From Chakra CLI:** This is useful if you plan to completely "eject" from
chakra's theme and you want to custom most component styles.

```sh
# clone the javascript theme
npx chakra-cli init --theme

# clone the typescript theme
npx chakra-cli init --theme --ts

# specify folder to clone theme to
npx chakra-cli init --theme --ts -o src
```

This command will copy the default theme to your project in the specified
directory, default is `chakra/`.

This approach will help you learn about the theme tokens (colors, fonts,
component styles) and make it easy to customize the theme to match your design
requirements.

3. Add the provider

For Chakra to work correctly, you need to setup the global provider and add
browser css reset. At the root of your application, here's what you need do:

```jsx live=false
import * as React from "react"
import { ChakraProvider, CSSReset } from "@chakra-ui/core"

// Use at the root of your app
function App() {
  return (
    <ChakraProvider>
      <CSSReset />
      <App />
    </ChakraProvider>
  )
}
```

> - If you use Next.js, you need to set this up in `pages/_app.js`
> - If you use Gatsby, kindly install the `gatsby-plugin-chakra-ui`. It does it
>   automatically for you.
> - If you use Create React App, you need to set this up in `index.js`

<br />

4. Consume the theme

Assuming you have the default theme installed or cloned. Add the `theme` to the
`ChakraProvider`.

```jsx live=false
import * as React from "react"
import { ChakraProvider, CSSReset } from "@chakra-ui/core"
import theme from "@chakra-ui/theme"
// or
// import theme from "./chakra"

// Use at the root of your app
function App() {
  return (
    <ChakraProvider theme={theme}>
      <CSSReset />
      <App />
    </ChakraProvider>
  )
}
```

That's it, you're good to go!

## Contributing

Please see our [contribution guidelines](/contributing) to learn how you can
contribute to this project.
