website/docs/theming/overview.mdx, before:

---
title: Introduction
description: Documentation for the component theming API.
order: 1
---

import { BadgeSpec } from "../../src/components/theming-guide-image"

# Component Theming

Writing component styles that are easy to maintain over the life of a growing
and changing project is a challenging task. To solve this, we need to have a
simple and consistent system.

Chakra provides a unified component-driven CSS API that makes it easy to build
customizable, theme-aware components.

<br />

> 🚨 This API is **completely optional** and should be used only when you need
> to customize or create component styles.

## Overview

A reusable and themable component consists of the **base styles**, that acts as
the default styles, and **modifier styles** that alter the appearance of the
component.

The most common style modifiers are:

- **Size.** A component can have different sizes (small, medium, large)
- **Variant.** A component can different visual styles (outline, solid, ghost)
- **Color scheme.** For a given variant, a component can have different color
  schemes. For example, an outline button with a red color scheme.
- **Color mode.** A component can change its visual styles based on color mode
  (light or dark).

## Theming API

In styled components, you usually do this:

```js live=false
const Button = styled("button")({
  // any style you can imagine goes here
})
```

With chakra's theming API, we've defined a set of constraints to keep your
styles consistent and extensible. Here's what you'll do:

```js live=false
const Button = chakra("button", {
  // base or default styles
  baseStyle: {...},
  // styles for the different sizes
  sizes: {...}
  // styles for the different visual styles
  variants: {...}
  // reference component styles in the theme
  themeKey: ""
  // attach props
  attrs: {...}
})
```

## Quick Example

Let's say you need to create a simple badge component with the following spec.

<BadgeSpec />

First thing we notice is that the badge has **base or common styles** across all
its variants. Here's how we'll model that:

```jsx live=false
const Badge = chakra("span", {
  baseStyle: {
    fontSize: "12px",
    fontWeight: "bold",
    textTransform: "uppercase",
    color: "white",
  },
})
```

Next, the badge has 4 variants: `in-progress`, `removed`, `new`, `default`.
Here's how we'll model that:

```jsx live=false
const Badge = chakra("span", {
  variants: {
    "in-progress": { bg: "blue.600" },
    new: { bg: "purple.600" },
    removed: { bg: "red.600" },
    default: { bg: "gray.600" },
  },
})
```

Bringing it all together:

```jsx live=false
const Badge = chakra("span", {
  baseStyle: {
    fontSize: "12px",
    fontWeight: "bold",
    textTransform: "uppercase",
    color: "white",
  },
  variants: {
    inProgress: { bg: "blue.600" },
    new: { bg: "purple.600" },
    removed: { bg: "red.600" },
    default: { bg: "gray.600" },
  },
})

// Pro tip: Set the default variant with `defaultProps`
Badge.defaultProps = {
  variant: "default",
}
```

That's it! Now you have a solid structure your team can use to create new
variants or improve the base styles.

Commit message:

chore: refactor component props style computation as an interpolation

website/docs/theming/overview.mdx, after:

---
title: Introduction
description: Documentation for the component theming API.
order: 1
---

import { BadgeSpec } from "../../src/components/theming-guide-image"

# Theming API

Chakra provides a theming API that makes it easy to build fully customizable,
theme-aware components directly from the theme object.

> 🚨 This API is **completely optional** and should be used only when you need
> to customize or create custom components.

## Style modifiers

A reusable and themable component consists of the `baseStyle`, which refers to
the default or common style, and modifier styles which alter the change the
appearance of the component.

The most common style modifiers are:

- **Size:** a component can have different sizes (small, medium, large)
- **Variant:** a component can different visual styles (outline, solid, ghost)
- **Color scheme:** for a given variant, a component can have different color
  schemes. For example, an outline button with a red color scheme.
- **Color mode:** a component can change its visual styles based on color mode
  (light or dark).

We created a simple API to help you build reusable and themeable components.

## The API

In styled components, you usually do this:

```js live=false
const Button = styled("button")({
  // any style you can imagine goes here
})
```

With chakra theming API, we defined some constraints to keep your styling
consistent. Here's what you'll do:

```js live=false
const Button = chakra("button", {
  // base or default styles
  baseStyle: {...},
  // styles for the different sizes
  sizes: {...}
  // styles for the different visual styles
  variants: {...}
  // reference styles in the theme
  themeKey: ""
  // attach props
  attrs: {...}
})
```

## Quick Example

Let's say you need to create a simple badge component with the following spec.

<BadgeSpec />

First thing we notice is that the badge has **common styles** across all its
variants. Here's how we'll model that:

```jsx live=false
const Badge = chakra("span", {
  baseStyle: {
    fontSize: "12px",
    fontWeight: "bold",
    textTransform: "uppercase",
    color: "white",
  },
})
```

Next, the badge has 4 variants: `in-progress`, `removed`, `new`, `default`.
Here's how we'll model that:

```jsx live=false
const Badge = chakra("span", {
  variants: {
    inProgress: { bg: "blue.600" },
    new: { bg: "purple.600" },
    removed: { bg: "red.600" },
    default: { bg: "gray.600" },
  },
})
```

Bringing it all together:

```jsx live=false
const Badge = chakra("span", {
  baseStyle: {
    fontSize: "12px",
    fontWeight: "bold",
    textTransform: "uppercase",
    color: "white",
  },
  variants: {
    inProgress: { bg: "blue.600" },
    new: { bg: "purple.600" },
    removed: { bg: "red.600" },
    default: { bg: "gray.600" },
  },
})

// Pro tip: Set the default variant with `defaultProps`
Badge.defaultProps = {
  variant: "default",
}
```

That's it! Now you have a solid structure your team can use to create new
variants or improve the base styles.
